URL: https://www.msajce-edu.in/professionalsocities.php
TITLE: MSAJCE | Mohamed Sathak A. J. College of Engineering | B.E | B.Tech | M.E | Admissions | Best Top Engineering College In Chennai

Online Application Form
Online Fee Payment
Students Corner
College Video
9940004500
Teachers & Engineers Day 2025 Celebration Photos New
ESE Timetable June 2025 New
Internship Report Format - 2025 New
Internship Report Format - 2025 - Download Here
18th Graduation Day 22 Feb 2025 Photos New
Admission 2026 - 2027 Flyer New
AICTE-ATAL Sponsored Six Days FDP New
17th Graduation Day Photos New
Admission Open 2026-2027 - Online Application Form
Online Fee Payment New
Grievance Cell - grievance@msajce-edu.in
The Feedback Facility of Students and Faculty Available in the AICTE Web Portal New
About Us An Overview Vision and Mission Management Principal Message Statutory body Governing Council Planning & Monitoring Board Academic Advisory Committe Grievance and Redressal Committee Anti-Ragging Committee & Squad Womens Empowerment Cell Functional Committees MSAJCE Policies Mandatory Disclosure Group of Institutions
An Overview
Vision and Mission
Management
Principal Message
Statutory body Governing Council Planning & Monitoring Board Academic Advisory Committe Grievance and Redressal Committee Anti-Ragging Committee & Squad Womens Empowerment Cell
Governing Council
Planning & Monitoring Board
Academic Advisory Committe
Grievance and Redressal Committee
Anti-Ragging Committee & Squad
Womens Empowerment Cell
Functional Committees
MSAJCE Policies
Mandatory Disclosure
Group of Institutions
Admission
Academics Regulations Curriculum and Syllabus Department Technology Centre
Regulations
Curriculum and Syllabus
Department
Technology Centre
Research
COE ESE Timetable Nov - Dec 2025 ESE NOV-DEC 2025 RESULTS EXAM REGISTRATION MAY-JUN'25 I & II YEAR III & IV YEAR
ESE Timetable Nov - Dec 2025
ESE NOV-DEC 2025 RESULTS
EXAM REGISTRATION MAY-JUN'25 I & II YEAR III & IV YEAR
I & II YEAR
III & IV YEAR
Placement
Life at MSAJCE Learning Centre (Library) Hostel Transport Sports Campus Radio Social Services Clubs & Societies Professional Socities
Learning Centre (Library)
Hostel
Transport
Sports
Campus Radio
Social Services
Clubs & Societies
Professional Socities
Alumni
AICTE Scholarship
Incubation
Professional Socities
Professional Socities
ISHRAE
Computer Society of India
History of CSI
The CSI Vision: "lT for Masses"
Keeping in mind the interest of the IT professionals & computer users CSI works towards making the profession as area of choice amongst all sections of the society. To fulfill this objective, the CSI regularly organizes conferences, conventions, lectures, projects, awards. At the same time it also ensures that regular training and skill updating are organized for the IT professionals. Education Directorate, CSI helps physically challenged citizens by providing training 'Punarjani'. CSI also works towards a global approach, by seeking out alliances with organizations overseas who may be willing to come forward and participate in such activities. CSI also helps governments in formulating IT strategy & planning
Region – VII
Kanchipuram Chapter
Being closely associated with students, the Society has developed a well-established network across the country. The activities conducted for the students associated with the Society include lecture meetings, seminars, conferences, training programs, programming contests and industrial visits to installations. CSI has a strong Educational Directorate which undertakes activities related to Certification of professionals related to the latest technologies. It's recent initiative of distance education in the Business Domain areas offers technology enabled learning supported by personal counseling & expert advice. In an ever changing environment, CSI offers professional counseling being a great need of the hour. It is done by being in close contact with its young members through various events, conferences, symposia to name a few.
Our College Received Best Supporting College award (SBC) from CSI Kancheepuram Chapter
Our faculty Mr. D. Weslin Received Active participant award (SBC) from CSI Kancheepuram Chapter
DETAILS OF NOMINATION AUTHORITY
CSI OFFICE BEARERS
Activities
Institute of Electrical and Electronics Engineers (IEEE)
The Institute of Electrical and Electronics Engineers ( IEEE ) is a United States of America based non-profit organization and is the world's leading professional association for the advancement of technology. In this society many renowned researchers, professors and scientist from worldwide have been affiliated with it through its global membership. The IEEE is a leading authority on areas ranging from aerospace systems, electrical, electronics, computers, telecommunications, biomedical engineering, electric power and consumer electronics among others. The IEEE publishes technical literature / highly qualified research articles in all the domains of electrical, computer science and electronics engineering and is a leading developer of international standards that underpin many of today’s telecommunications, information technology and power generation products and services.
IEEE student branch gives the opportunity to meet and learn from fellow students, as well as faculty members and professionals in the field. The Student Branch activities offer numerous educational, technical, and professional advantages of IEEE membership through special projects, activities, meetings, tours and field trips. The activities of the student branch are listed as below :
IETE Students Forum
The Institution of Electronics and Telecommunication Engineers (IETE) is one of the leading Professional Societies in India for Electronics and Communication Engineers. Our institution has established an IETE Students Forum in the year - 16 /08/2017 -. Our student branches have -100 active members. This Forum organizes Guest lectures, Seminars, Workshops, and conferences for the benefit of student members to exchange ideas and information on the topics of their interest like curriculum, employment opportunities, higher educational opportunities, emerging trends, new developments etc. The student members are also facilitated towards technical visits, practical training, and project work in R&D laboratories and Industries. These activities encourage team work, event management and develop the spirit of self-reliance among the student members. Our student members have also actively participated and won prizes in various technical events conducted by other institutions. IETE student members have the privilege to attend IETE technical programs in India at reduced registration fees 1. IETE Journal of Education 2. IETE Journal of Research 3. IETE Technical Review
Goals of IETE
Benefits of ISF
IETE Activities Conducted
Society of Automotive Engineers
Society of Automotive Engineers(SAE) is a U.S.-based, globally active professional association and standards developing organization for engineering professionals in various industries. Principal emphasis is placed on global transport industries such as aerospace, automotive, and commercial vehicles. Accordingly, the name SAE was established to reflect the broader emphasis on mobility. SAEINDIA is India's leading resource for mobility technology. As an individual member driven society of mobility practitioners the ownership of SAEINDIA wrests with its members who are Individuals from the mobility community, which includes Engineers Executives from Industry, Government Officials, Academics and Students .It is an affiliate society of SAE International registered in India as an Indian nonprofit engineering and scientific society dedicated to the advancement of mobility industry in India. Student clubs of SAE from various academic institution, make sure that they establish a link between the industry and the students. SAE India with its four sections (Northern ,Eastern, Southern and Western) covering entire India, organizing various events for the benefit of Engineering Student community
SAE India Student Events
Our College Milestones
AE India - MSAJCE Collegiate Club Office Bearers
SAE Activities Conducted
Academic Year 2019-2020
The Indian Society of Heating, Refrigerating and Air Conditioning Engineers (ISHRAE)
The Indian Society of Heating, Refrigerating and Air Conditioning Engineers (ISHRAE), was founded in 1981 at New Delhi by a group of eminent HVAC&R professionals. ISHRAE operates from 41 Chapters and sub Chapters spread all over India, with HQ in Delhi. ISHRAE works in the National interest with various Govt. Ministries/Departments, e.g. in the development of Standards & drafting of NBC for BIS, working on ECBC with BEE, with Ozone cell of MoEFCC, on refrigerant gases. ISHRAE is a member & active supporter of National Centre for Cold Chain development (NCCD). Ministry of Agriculture works closely with NCCD on refrigeration. ISHRAE is also working in close co-operation with other similar Societies & organizations, both at national and international level, for the promotion and development of issues like Sustainability, Green Buildings, Energy Efficiency, Environmental Responsibility, Indoor Air Quality, Fire& Safety. ISHRAE is looked upon as a repository of technical knowledge in the HVAC&R and Building Industry field by peer Organizations & the Govt. of India. ISHRAE objectives includes, advancement of the Arts and Sciences of Heating, Ventilation, Air Conditioning and Refrigeration Engineering and related services, Continuing education of members and other interested persons in the said sciences through Lectures, Workshops, Product Presentations, Publications and Expositions, Rendition of career guidance and financial assistance to the students of the above said sciences and encouragement of scientific research. As part of its objectives to promote the interests of the HVAC&R industry, ISHRAE is involved in various activities. ISHRAE reaches out to all its members and seeks their active participation & involvement in all the Events/Programs organizedby the society.
The activities of the student branch are listed as below
34, Rajiv Gandhi Salai (OMR), Siruseri IT Park, Siruseri, Chennai - 603103
+91 99400 04500
msajce.office@gmail.com
Connect With Us
MSAJCE Links
News Letter
Anna University Approval
AICTE Approval
Code of Conduct
Best Practices
Mandatory Disclosure
Grievance Cell
Web Links
College Management System
Academic Calendar
Spoken Tutorial
Balance Sheet
Useful Links
AICTE Scholarship/Fellowship Schemes
Annual Report AY2023-2024
Graduation Day
Institutional Distinctiveness
© 2023 MSAJCE All Rights Reserved | 1635387 Visitors
Maintained by : WebTeam MSAJCE