URL: https://www.msajce-edu.in/research.php
TITLE: MSAJCE | Mohamed Sathak A. J. College of Engineering | B.E | B.Tech | M.E | Admissions | Best Top Engineering College In Chennai

Online Application Form
Online Fee Payment
Students Corner
College Video
9940004500
Teachers & Engineers Day 2025 Celebration Photos New
ESE Timetable June 2025 New
Internship Report Format - 2025 New
Internship Report Format - 2025 - Download Here
18th Graduation Day 22 Feb 2025 Photos New
Admission 2026 - 2027 Flyer New
AICTE-ATAL Sponsored Six Days FDP New
17th Graduation Day Photos New
Admission Open 2026-2027 - Online Application Form
Online Fee Payment New
Grievance Cell - grievance@msajce-edu.in
The Feedback Facility of Students and Faculty Available in the AICTE Web Portal New
About Us An Overview Vision and Mission Management Principal Message Statutory body Governing Council Planning & Monitoring Board Academic Advisory Committe Grievance and Redressal Committee Anti-Ragging Committee & Squad Womens Empowerment Cell Functional Committees MSAJCE Policies Mandatory Disclosure Group of Institutions
An Overview
Vision and Mission
Management
Principal Message
Statutory body Governing Council Planning & Monitoring Board Academic Advisory Committe Grievance and Redressal Committee Anti-Ragging Committee & Squad Womens Empowerment Cell
Governing Council
Planning & Monitoring Board
Academic Advisory Committe
Grievance and Redressal Committee
Anti-Ragging Committee & Squad
Womens Empowerment Cell
Functional Committees
MSAJCE Policies
Mandatory Disclosure
Group of Institutions
Admission
Academics Regulations Curriculum and Syllabus Department Technology Centre
Regulations
Curriculum and Syllabus
Department
Technology Centre
Research
COE ESE Timetable Nov - Dec 2025 ESE NOV-DEC 2025 RESULTS EXAM REGISTRATION MAY-JUN'25 I & II YEAR III & IV YEAR
ESE Timetable Nov - Dec 2025
ESE NOV-DEC 2025 RESULTS
EXAM REGISTRATION MAY-JUN'25 I & II YEAR III & IV YEAR
I & II YEAR
III & IV YEAR
Placement
Life at MSAJCE Learning Centre (Library) Hostel Transport Sports Campus Radio Social Services Clubs & Societies Professional Socities
Learning Centre (Library)
Hostel
Transport
Sports
Campus Radio
Social Services
Clubs & Societies
Professional Socities
Alumni
AICTE Scholarship
Incubation
Research and Development
Research and Development
Objectives
Research Advisory Committee
List of Supervisors
Publications
Patent Filed / Copy Right
Objectives
The Research and Development Cell aims to nurture research culture in the College by promoting research in newly emerging and challenging areas of Engineering, Technology, Science and Humanities
Research Advisory Committee
List of Supervisors
Publications Faculty & Students
2023-2024
2022-2023
2021-2022
2020-2021
2019-2020
2018-2019
2017-2018
2016-2017
Publications 2023-2024
Publications 2022-2023
Publications 2021-2022
Publications 2020-2021
Publications 2019-2020
Publications 2018-2019
Publications 2017-2018
Publications 2016-2017
Patent Filed
https://Ipindiaservices.Gov.In/Patentsearch/Patentsearch/Viewapplicationstatus
Patent Published
https://Ipindiaservices.Gov.In/Patentsearch/Patentsearch/Viewapplicationstatus
Copyright filed
https://Copyright.Gov.In/Frmstatusgenuser.Aspx
Books / Book Chapter
National Innovation and Start-up Policy (NISP)
Vision
To cater the needs of student entrepreneurs with innovative ideas there by introducing a culture of entrepreneurship inside campus which will strengthen our education system and there by promoting the national economic and social growth
Mission
To develop an ecosystem with required infrastructure that can enable students and faculty to innovate and prototype their potential ideas with industrial standards and support from Government, industry and reputed academic institutions around the world and help them to realize their potentials.
Short Term Objectives:
To help student groups to prototype their ideas.
To improve innovation, creative and design thinking among student community.
Incubation facility for faculty driven start-up and student/Alumni start-up.
Organize FDP, seminars and workshops, distinguish talks for students, Faculty and Alumni and promote entrepreneurial culture.
Strengthen institute industry interaction cell activity and effectively use the outcomes for achieving the mission.
Long Term Objectives:
Associate with DST, CII, MSME and other academic institutions for transferring world class facility for MSAJCE IEDC activities.
Improve quality of research work among students and to attain patent, which can be commercially used in production.
Provide a platform for students to develop innovative products with global recognition and generate business opportunities.
Generate revenues through consultancy work and student start-ups.
Spread awareness to students and faculty regarding IPR related activities.
Strategic partnership linkage with Entrepreneurship Development Institute of India (EDII), Chennai. National Innovation Foundation (NIF) of India to submit ideas and apply for schemes. Procure fund from AICTE for Entrepreneurship Development Cell.
Entrepreneurship Development Institute of India (EDII), Chennai.
National Innovation Foundation (NIF) of India to submit ideas and apply for schemes.
Procure fund from AICTE for Entrepreneurship Development Cell.
Committee Members
Thrust Area
KPI Monitor & Evaluation
Increase in Self-Employment Rate
5 Established Start-ups per year
NIRF Rankings
Establish the Environment with multiple level of support for innovation & Entrepreneurship and startups.
Students will choose Entrepreneurship as career
ARIIA Rankings
All the student & faculty with entrepreneurship Orientation
Student & faculty motivated to start any entrepreneurial activity
5 IPR/Innovations developed ideas/year
5 Student/Early-Stage Start-ups to be formed/year.
In-house Expert Capacity facility available for Advisory Services
25% of Student & faculty mass exposed to awareness/orientation building programs
Students covered through entrepreneurship Education; MOOC, Class Room, Experiential Learning programs etc.
250 of beneficiaries are accessing the infrastructure & facilities per day, month & Year
25% innovators identified; 25 of awarded,/recognized; 25 of Supported
5% Student projects turn to (commercialize) Innovations
5 of IPR based product/services generated and registration filed
In-house trained professional developed for advisory services
5 of Research Studies on Entrepreneurship published
2 of Regional, National and International linkages established for the start-up & innovation
5% Representatives of experts & entrepreneurial students across Dept. & Disciplines.
5 of Beneficiaries Referred to Incubators/investors for further support through Start-up Cell
10 of Beneficiaries generated under various schemes and programs leveraged and converged at Start-up Cell
Quarterly News Letter
Biannual Survey
Monthly progress report
5 Education/Skill certification program on Entrepreneurship, IIPR, Innovation etc.
25 of workshops, awareness, and market outreach events, orientation, advocacy meetings etc.
12 of networking event (Intra and Inter-institutional, enablers, stakeholders) organized
5 of skill and competency development training programs/FDPs/EDPs organized.
5 of research studies related to Entrepreneurship conducted
01 of national and regional award and campus Hackathon like events organized
Incentivizing Entrepreneurship and Innovation; services and facilities; Start-up Manual, policies, tool kits etc.
1% of total budget/year spend against total institution revenue for start-up
Budget allocation and Spend ratio for the start-up mandate in institute
Biannual Survey
Quarterly News Letter
Monthly progress report
Review Meetings
Tentative plan for the next 5 years
34, Rajiv Gandhi Salai (OMR), Siruseri IT Park, Siruseri, Chennai - 603103
+91 99400 04500
msajce.office@gmail.com
Connect With Us
MSAJCE Links
News Letter
Anna University Approval
AICTE Approval
Code of Conduct
Best Practices
Mandatory Disclosure
Grievance Cell
Web Links
College Management System
Academic Calendar
Spoken Tutorial
Balance Sheet
Useful Links
AICTE Scholarship/Fellowship Schemes
Annual Report AY2023-2024
Graduation Day
Institutional Distinctiveness
© 2023 MSAJCE All Rights Reserved | 1635387 Visitors
Maintained by : WebTeam MSAJCE