Here is the transformed data in the required format:

[SECTION: Introduction to the Learning Centre]
The Learning Centre is the heart of every academic institution, and our institution encourages all students and staff members to make the best use of the library. The library's prime objective is to provide the right information to the right readers at the right time. The library is housed in a spacious area of 8978 Sq.ft, fully computerized with more than 29853 books and 1885 reference volumes.

[SECTION: Library Resources]
The library has a vast collection of resources, including 29853 volumes, 5628 titles, 1885 reference books, 35 national journals, and 20 magazines. The library also subscribes to DELNET and J-Gate databases, providing access to a wide range of digital resources.

[SECTION: Library Committee]
The library committee is headed by Dr. K.S. Srinivasan, Principal, as the Chairman. The committee also includes Dr. A. Balakrishnan, Head of Academics, Dr. B. Janarthanan, Head of Research, and Dr. I. Manju, Head of IQAC, as members. The committee is responsible for overseeing the library's operations and ensuring that it meets the needs of the institute community.

[SECTION: Library Services]
The library provides a range of services, including transaction of books, internet and intranet facilities, reservation of books, reference services, and online public access catalogues. The library also has a reprographic section, group discussion rooms, and inter-library loan facilities. Dr. Kamalaselvan. A, Library I/C, is responsible for overseeing the library's services.

[SECTION: Library Rules and Regulations]
The library has a set of rules and regulations that must be followed by all members. These include rules regarding borrowing entitlements, loan periods, and fines for late returns. All staff and students are members of the college library, and they are eligible to borrow books and access other library resources. The library ID is not transferable, and members must notify the librarian of any loss or change of address.

[SECTION: Library Working Hours]
The library is open from 8.00 A.M. to 7.00 P.M. on weekdays and from 10.00 A.M. to 4.00 P.M. on Sundays. The library is fully computerized, and members can access the library's resources using the online public access catalogue.

[SECTION: E-Library and Online Resources]
The library provides access to a range of online resources, including DELNET, J-Gate, and National Digital Library. The library also has a collection of e-books, and members can access online course materials from reputable providers such as MIT, Coursera, and edX. Mr. S. Sudhakar, Chief Librarian, is responsible for overseeing the library's online resources.