SECTION: Academic Schedules

The Anna University Academic Schedule for the Higher Semester in August/September 2022 provides key dates for the semester. The Anna University Academic Schedule for April/May 2022 focuses on the Higher Semester, while another schedule is designated for First Year students. Additionally, there are Guidelines for Certificate Corrections.

SECTION: College Reopening Dates

The college reopening dates for II, III, and IV year students for the academic session from August 2022 to November 2022 have been established. There is also a reopening scheduled for the same groups between March 2022 and June 2022.

SECTION: Internal Assessment Tests

Various Internal Assessment Tests are scheduled for Higher Semester students, including Internal Assessment Test I, II, III, and IV. First Year students will also participate in Internal Assessment Tests I, II, III, and IV.

SECTION: Academic Calendars

The Academic Calendar for the Higher Semester has been delineated for both Odd Semester (2022-2023) and Even Semester (2021-2022). There is also an Academic Calendar specifically for First Year students for the Even Semester of 2021-2022.

SECTION: Student Achievements in Civil Engineering

In the Department of Civil Engineering, the following students achieved notable standing: Mohamed Jassim .M is in his II year, Veera Kumar .M is in his III year, and Mohmood Naina .M.H is in IV year.

SECTION: Student Achievements in Mechanical Engineering

In the Department of Mechanical Engineering, the following students are enrolled: Salman is a II year student, Atef Jamaludeen .N is in his III year, and Mohamed Nibras .M is completing his IV year.

SECTION: Student Achievements in Computer Science and Engineering

In the Department of Computer Science and Engineering, the outstanding students are as follows: Vinitha .M is in her II year, Bhuvaneshwari .B is in her III year, and Mahalakshmi .R is in IV year.

SECTION: Student Achievements in Information Technology

Within the Department of Information Technology, Shalini .M is a II year student, Ganga .M is in her III year, and Fouzia .M.A is completing her IV year.

SECTION: Student Achievements in Electronics and Communication Engineering

Students in the Department of Electronics and Communication Engineering include Satheshkumar .V, who is in his II year; Assifa .A, who is in her III year; and Vigneshwaran .V, who is completing his IV year.

SECTION: Student Achievements in Electrical and Electronics Engineering

From the Department of Electrical and Electronics Engineering, the following students are enrolled: Divyasri .S is a II year student, Sathyan .S is in his III year, and Sanjith .S is in IV year.