SECTION: Objectives of the 3D Printing Program  
The students will be able to gain knowledge and skills related to 3D printing technologies. They will learn the selection of material, equipment, and development of a product for the Industry 4.0 environment. Additionally, they will understand the various software tools, processes, and techniques for digital manufacturing, and apply these techniques into various applications.

SECTION: Skills Developed in CAD  
The students will develop CAD models for 3D printing. They will import and export CAD data and generate .stl files. The students will select a specific material for given applications, decide on a 3D printing process for those applications, and produce a product using 3D Printing or Additive Manufacturing (AM).

SECTION: Networking Academy Collaboration  
Mohamed Sathak A J College of Engineering has partnered with CISCO, the world leaders in networking, to establish the Networking Academy (NetAcad). This program provides a unique hands-on learning experience in the latest networking, security, and cloud technologies using simulation tools. It offers professional certification recognized by employers worldwide.

SECTION: Career Pathways through Networking Academy  
The Networking Academy provides career pathways to connect to an estimated eight million networking jobs around the world through NetAcad.

SECTION: Courses Offered in Networking  
The courses offered include Network Essentials, Mobility Fundamentals, CCNA: Introduction to Networks, CCNA: Switching, Routing, and Wireless Essentials, CCNA: Enterprise Networking, Security, and Automation or Networking Courses, Security Courses, IoT & Data Analytics Courses, OS and IT Courses, Programming Courses, and Entrepreneurship.

SECTION: Certifications Available  
The available certifications include CISCO Certified Network Associate and Implementing CISCO Enterprise Network Core Technologies.

SECTION: Course Requirements and Duration  
The prerequisites for the 3D Printing program include Computer Aided Design & Drafting and Engineering Materials. The total duration for the course details is 30 hours. 

SECTION: Detailed Course Content  
1. 3D Printing (Additive Manufacturing) - 6 Hours  
Introduction, Process, Classifications, Advantages, Additive versus Conventional Manufacturing processes, Applications.  
2. CAD for Additive Manufacturing - 4 Hours  
CAD Data formats, Data translation, Data loss, and STL format.  
3. Additive Manufacturing Techniques - 10 Hours  
Stereo-Lithography, LOM, FDM, SLS, SLM, Binder Jet technology, Process, Process parameters, and Process Selection for various applications in domains such as Aerospace, Electronics, Health Care, Defence, Automotive, Construction, Food Processing, and Machine Tools.  
4. Materials - 4 Hours  
Polymers, Metals, Non-Metals, Ceramics, the process of selection for various applications, and desired properties of raw material types such as liquid, solid, wire, and powder.  
5. Additive Manufacturing Equipment - 4 Hours  
Process Equipment, Design, process parameters, Governing Bonding Mechanism, Common faults and troubleshooting, and Process Design.  
6. Post Processing Techniques - 1 Hour  
Support Removal, Sanding, Acetone treatment, and polishing.  
7. Product Quality - 1 Hour  
Inspection and testing, along with defect analysis and their causes. 

SECTION: Practical Sessions  
Students will engage in practical sessions which include 3D Modelling of a single component, Assembly of CAD modelled Components, Exercise on CAD Data Exchange, Generation of .stl files, Identification of a product for Additive Manufacturing and its process plan, Printing of the identified product on an available AM machine, Post-processing of the additively manufactured product, Inspection and defect analysis of the product, and comparison with a conventional counterpart.

SECTION: Suggested Reading  
The suggested books include "Additive Manufacturing Technologies" by Lan Gibson, David W. Rosen and Brent Stucker, "Understanding Additive Manufacturing" by Andreas Gebhardt, "3D Printing and Design" by Khanna Editorial, "3D Printing and Rapid Prototyping" by CK Chua and Kah Fai Leong, "Laser-Assisted Fabrication of Materials" by J.D. Majumdar and I. Manna, "Laser-Induced Materials and Processes for Rapid Prototyping" by L. Lu and others, and "Numerical Modelling of the Additive Manufacturing Processes of Titanium Alloy" by Zhiqiang Fan and Frank Liou.