--- SOURCE: https://www.msajce-edu.in/about.php ---
MSAJCE | Mohamed Sathak A. J. College of Engineering | B.E | B.Tech | M.E | Admissions | Best Top Engineering College In Chennai
Teachers & Engineers Day 2025 Celebration Photos New |
Internship Report Format - 2025 New |
Internship Report Format - 2025 - Download Here |
18th Graduation Day 22 Feb 2025 Photos New |
Admission 2026 - 2027 Flyer New |
AICTE-ATAL Sponsored Six Days FDP New |
17th Graduation Day Photos New |
Admission Open 2026-2027 - Online Application Form |
Grievance Cell - grievance@msajce-edu.in |
The Feedback Facility of Students and Faculty Available in the AICTE Web Portal New
Grievance and Redressal Committee
The Mohamed Sathak A.J. College of Engineering (MSAJCE), established on 5th July 2001 under the aegis of Mohamed Sathak Trust, is approved by AICTE New Delhi, affiliated to Anna University Chennai and Government of Tamil Nadu. MSAJCE Strives to continuously upgrade its facilities to provide quality technical education to meet the industrial and societal needs, by providing skill based training with the state of art facilities.
The college campus, sprawling over 70 acres of greenery located inside the SIPCOT IT Park, Siruseri is surrounded by multinational IT companies such as TCS, CTS, Intellect, Aspire, Steria, Polaris, FSS, etc. MSAJCE has good infrastructure facilities such as spacious classrooms, drawing halls, laboratories, seminar halls, computer facilities with internet and wifi connectivity, library, workshops, auditorium and playground. The college is well connected by Road, Rail and Air from various parts of the country. A team of well qualified and experienced faculty supports the teaching and learning process. The college provides equal importance for academic, co curricular and extracurricular activities. MSAJCE provides all kinds of training for the professional and overall transformation of the students.
Located in green lush environment at Sirucheri IT Park surrounded by 100+ leading IT Industries Like TCS, CTS, Infosys, InteIlect, FSS, HCL etc
State of art facilities with industry collaborative technology centers
Qualified, Experienced & Dedicated team of faculty members
Well defined academic process make the student Smart learning
Involve the students to work in various research and industrial projects, Industrial Hackathon and Project competitions will gain the Competency based learning
Professional society, Club activities and Student chapter activities enable them Innovative learning
State of art facilities with industry collaborative technology centers
Student Exchange Program for Cultural learning
Internship, Industrial Visits, Guest lecture, Seminar / Webinar by Industrial Experts to meet the Industrial Expectations
Communication Language Learning facility – (English, German & Japan)
Value Added Courses & Technology Training to bridge the gap between Institute and Industry
Support for Higher Education & became an Entrepreneur
Grievance and Redressal Committee
Mohamed Sathak AJ College of Engineering
AICTE Scholarship/Fellowship Schemes
© 2023 MSAJCE All Rights Reserved | 1635387 Visitors
The Mohamed Sathak A.J. College of Engineering (MSAJCE), established on 5th July 2001 under the aegis of Mohamed Sathak Trust, is approved by AICTE New Delhi, affiliated to Anna University Chennai and Government of Tamil Nadu. MSAJCE Strives to continuously upgrade its facilities to provide quality technical education to meet the industrial and societal needs, by providing skill based training with the state of art facilities.
The college campus, sprawling over 70 acres of greenery located inside the SIPCOT IT Park, Siruseri is surrounded by multinational IT companies such as TCS, CTS, Intellect, Aspire, Steria, Polaris, FSS, etc. MSAJCE has good infrastructure facilities such as spacious classrooms, drawing halls, laboratories, seminar halls, computer facilities with internet and wifi connectivity, library, workshops, auditorium and playground. The college is well connected by Road, Rail and Air from various parts of the country. A team of well qualified and experienced faculty supports the teaching and learning process. The college provides equal importance for academic, co curricular and extracurricular activities. MSAJCE provides all kinds of training for the professional and overall transformation of the students.