--- SOURCE: https://www.msajce-edu.in/Anti-Ragging.php ---
MSAJCE | Mohamed Sathak A. J. College of Engineering | B.E | B.Tech | M.E | Admissions | Best Top Engineering College In Chennai
Teachers & Engineers Day 2025 Celebration Photos New |
Internship Report Format - 2025 New |
Internship Report Format - 2025 - Download Here |
18th Graduation Day 22 Feb 2025 Photos New |
Admission 2026 - 2027 Flyer New |
AICTE-ATAL Sponsored Six Days FDP New |
17th Graduation Day Photos New |
Admission Open 2026-2027 - Online Application Form |
Grievance Cell - grievance@msajce-edu.in |
The Feedback Facility of Students and Faculty Available in the AICTE Web Portal New
Grievance and Redressal Committee
ANTI-RAGGING COMMITTEE & SQUAD MEMBERS
Ragging in any form is totally prohibited in and outside the campus of Mohamed Sathak AJ College of Engineering.
It is the objective of every member of MSAJCE community consisting of the Management, Faculty and Staff members and as well as all students and their parents/guardians to make the College a 'Ragging free' Institution and ensure a conducive environment for freshers to adapt to the changes that the college life may demand on them and grow up along with their seniors
As defined by the UGC, Ragging constitutes one or more of any of the following acts:-
Any conduct by any student or students whether by words spoken or written or by an act which has the effect of teasing, treating or handling with rudeness a fresher or any other student.
Indulging any indiscipline activities by any student or students which causes or is likely to cause annoyance, hardship, physical or psychological harm or to raise fear or apprehension thereof in any fresher or any other student;
Asking any student to do any act which such student will not in the ordinary course do and which has the effect of causing or generating a sense of shame, or torment or embarrassment so as to adversely affect the physique or psyche of such fresher or any other student;
Any act by a senior student that prevents, disrupts or disturbs the regular academic activity of any other student or a fresher;
Exploiting the services of a fresher or any other student for completing the academic tasks assigned to an individual or a group of students.
Any act of financial extortion or forceful expenditure burden put on a fresher or any other student by students;
Any act of physical abuse including all variants of it: sexual abuse, homosexual assaults, stripping, forcing obscene and lewd acts, gestures, causing bodily harm or any other danger to health or person;
Any act or abuse by spoken words, emails, post, public insults which would also include deriving perverted pleasure, vicarious or sadistic thrill from actively or passively participating in the discomfiture to fresher or any other student ;
Any act that affects the mental health and self-confidence of a fresher or any other student with or without an intent to derive a sadistic pleasure or showing off power, authority or superiority by a student over any fresher or any other student.
Punishments that may be awarded for Ragging
Every incident of ragging will be investigated by the Anti ragging Squads who will go into the details and submit all relevant information to the Principal along with their findings and recommendations.
On receipt of the recommendation of the Anti Ragging Squad or on receipt of any information concerning any reported incident of ragging, the Principal will determine if a case under the penal laws is made out and if so, either on his own or through a member of the Anti-Ragging Committee authorized by him in this behalf, proceed to file a First Information Report (FIR), within twenty four hours of receipt of such information or recommendation, with the police and local authorities, under the appropriate penal provisions relating to one or more specified clauses of the UGC Regulations, for further action.
Further, the Anti-Ragging Committee of MSAJCE will, depending on the nature and gravity of the guilt established by the Anti-Ragging Squad/s, award, to those found guilty, one or more of the following punishments, namely:-
Suspension from attending classes and academic privileges.
Withholding/ withdrawing scholarship/ fellowship and other benefits
Debarring from appearing in any test/ examination or other evaluation process.
Debarring from representing the institution in any regional, national or international meet, tournament, youth festival, etc.
Suspension/ expulsion from the hostel.
Rustication from the institution for period ranging from one to four semesters.
Expulsion from the institution and consequent debarring from admission to any other institution for a specified period.
Where the persons committing or abetting the act of ragging are not identified, the college will resort to collective punishment.
(As per UGC Regulations, an appeal against the order of punishment by the Anti-Ragging Committee of MSAJCE lies with the Vice-Chancellor of Anna University, Chennai)
ANTI-RAGGING COMMITTEE & SQUAD MEMBERS
Information for Dr.K.S.Srinivasan: The Name is Dr.K.S.Srinivasan. The Designation is Principal. The Category is MSAJCE, Chennai. The Contact Details is Chairman. 
Information for 2: The Name is 2. The Designation is Dr.S.Devikala. The Category is Head –Student Affairs, MSAJCE, Chennai. The Contact Details is Convener. 
Information for 3: The Name is 3. The Designation is Dr.A.Balakrishnan. The Category is Head - Admin, MSAJCE, Chennai. The Contact Details is Member. 
Information for 4: The Name is 4. The Designation is Mr.V.Vigneshwaran. The Category is Head – Placement; MSAJCE, Chennai. The Contact Details is Member. 
Information for 5: The Name is 5. The Designation is Dr.K.P.Santhosh Nathan. The Category is PED, MSAJCE, Chennai. The Contact Details is Member. 
Information for 6: The Name is 6. The Designation is Mr.A.Abdul Gafoor. The Category is Admission Officer, MSAJCE, Chennai. The Contact Details is Member. 
Information for 7: The Name is 7. The Designation is Dr.R.Someswaran. The Category is Asst.Prof/Civil, MSAJCE, Chennai. The Contact Details is Member. 
Information for 8: The Name is 8. The Designation is Dr.S.Prasath. The Category is Asst.Prof/Mech, MSAJCE, Chennai. The Contact Details is Member. 
Information for 9: The Name is 9. The Designation is Mr.C.Venkatesh. The Category is AP / EEE, MSAJCE, Chennai. The Contact Details is Member. 
Information for 10: The Name is 10. The Designation is Mrs.Jebamalar. The Category is AP / CSE, MSAJCE, Chennai. The Contact Details is Member. 
Information for 11: The Name is 11. The Designation is Mrs.P.Anusuya. The Category is AP/ ECE, MSAJCE, Chennai. The Contact Details is Member. 
Information for 12: The Name is 12. The Designation is Mrs.V.Shobana. The Category is AP / Physics MSAJCE, Chennai. The Contact Details is Member. 
Information for 13: The Name is 13. The Designation is Student Representatives. The Category is -. The Contact Details is Member. 
Information for Dr. I. Manju: The Name is Dr. I. Manju. The Designation is Head of Technology Centre and Industry Relation, MSAJCE. The Category is Member. The Contact Details is 9940055026. 
Information for Mrs.Premalatha: The Name is Mrs.Premalatha. The Designation is Head – IQAC, MSAJCE. The Category is Member. The Contact Details is 9952042616. 
Information for Mr.Ramesh.G: The Name is Mr.Ramesh.G. The Designation is Asst.Prof. / MECH, MSAJCE. The Category is Member. The Contact Details is 9443010256. 
Information for Mrs. Sai Priya: The Name is Mrs. Sai Priya. The Designation is Asst. Prof/Eng, MSAJCE. The Category is Member. The Contact Details is 9790852066. 
Information for Mrs. Suganthi: The Name is Mrs. Suganthi. The Designation is Asst.Prof. / ECE, MSAJCE. The Category is Member. The Contact Details is 7299772958. 
Information for Mrs. Jeyanthi: The Name is Mrs. Jeyanthi. The Designation is Asst.Prof. / ECE, MSAJCE. The Category is Member. The Contact Details is 9884155152. 
Information for Mrs. Saranya: The Name is Mrs. Saranya. The Designation is Asst.Prof. / CSE, MSAJCE. The Category is Member. The Contact Details is 9629019412. 
Information for Mr. Prasath: The Name is Mr. Prasath. The Designation is Asst.Prof. / MECH. The Category is Member. The Contact Details is 8248083360. 
Information for Mr. Kamaraj: The Name is Mr. Kamaraj. The Designation is Asst.Prof. / ECE, MSAJCE. The Category is Member. The Contact Details is 9790971664. 
AICTE Scholarship/Fellowship Schemes
© 2023 MSAJCE All Rights Reserved | 1635387 Visitors
| Any conduct by any student or students whether by words spoken or written or by an act which has the effect of teasing, treating or handling with rudeness a fresher or any other student.
| Indulging any indiscipline activities by any student or students which causes or is likely to cause annoyance, hardship, physical or psychological harm or to raise fear or apprehension thereof in any fresher or any other student;
| Asking any student to do any act which such student will not in the ordinary course do and which has the effect of causing or generating a sense of shame, or torment or embarrassment so as to adversely affect the physique or psyche of such fresher or any other student;
| Any act by a senior student that prevents, disrupts or disturbs the regular academic activity of any other student or a fresher;
| Exploiting the services of a fresher or any other student for completing the academic tasks assigned to an individual or a group of students.
| Any act of financial extortion or forceful expenditure burden put on a fresher or any other student by students;
| Any act of physical abuse including all variants of it: sexual abuse, homosexual assaults, stripping, forcing obscene and lewd acts, gestures, causing bodily harm or any other danger to health or person;
| Any act or abuse by spoken words, emails, post, public insults which would also include deriving perverted pleasure, vicarious or sadistic thrill from actively or passively participating in the discomfiture to fresher or any other student ;
| Any act that affects the mental health and self-confidence of a fresher or any other student with or without an intent to derive a sadistic pleasure or showing off power, authority or superiority by a student over any fresher or any other student.
| Suspension from attending classes and academic privileges.
| Withholding/ withdrawing scholarship/ fellowship and other benefits
| Debarring from appearing in any test/ examination or other evaluation process.
| Debarring from representing the institution in any regional, national or international meet, tournament, youth festival, etc.
| Suspension/ expulsion from the hostel.
| Rustication from the institution for period ranging from one to four semesters.
| Expulsion from the institution and consequent debarring from admission to any other institution for a specified period.