--- SOURCE: https://www.msajce-edu.in/eee.php ---
MSAJCE | Mohamed Sathak A. J. College of Engineering | B.E | B.Tech | M.E | Admissions | Best Top Engineering College In Chennai
Teachers & Engineers Day 2025 Celebration Photos New |
Internship Report Format - 2025 New |
Internship Report Format - 2025 - Download Here |
18th Graduation Day 22 Feb 2025 Photos New |
Admission 2026 - 2027 Flyer New |
AICTE-ATAL Sponsored Six Days FDP New |
17th Graduation Day Photos New |
Admission Open 2026-2027 - Online Application Form |
Grievance Cell - grievance@msajce-edu.in |
The Feedback Facility of Students and Faculty Available in the AICTE Web Portal New
Grievance and Redressal Committee
Electrical and Electronics Engineering
Electrical and Electronics Engineering
Department of Electrical and Electronics Engineering
Electrical engineering is an engineering discipline concerned with the study of designing, installing and operating of the
equipment’s and machines ranging from small motors to heavy generators and turbines. Electrical engineering jobs represent over 25% of all
available jobs in engineering. In India 30%of the government jobs are from electrical engineering sectors. Electrical and electronics engineers
can enter into the job market of CSE, ECE, ICE, Robotics, Mechanical engineering, Healthcare sectors etc. But engineers from other branches
cannot enter into electrical engineers job market. Other than conventional electrical engineering jobs like power generation, transmission,
distribution, manufacturing and utilization sector are well positioned to address a variety of crucial engineering issues faced today. With
an expected boom in electric vehicle sector in the near future, the demand and contribution of electrical engineers to the development of
India and Indian economy will be tremendous. The Government of India has developed policies and set targets for the implementation of renewable
energy sources like solar, wind etc. to reduce carbon foot print and boost economy. This program is grounded with science and maths. When these
subjects are enjoyed then it becomes a rewarding field of study with many opportunities to solve real time problems.
B.E. - Electrical and Electronics Engineering
4 years (Regular) / 3 years (Lateral Entry)
8 (Regular) / 6 (Lateral Entry)
Total - 30 (Government - 15, Management - 15)
10+2 system of Education. Must have secured a pass in Physics, Chemistry and Mathematics in the qualifying examination. For more information
Circuit Designers, Energy Efficiency Engineer | Distribution Planning Engineer| Power System Engineeer, Research Engineer
To be a centre of excellence for transforming students into proficient Electrical and Electronics Engineers through sustainable practices.
M1. Impart core fundamental knowledge and necessary skills in Electrical and Electronics Engineering through innovative teaching and learning methodology
M2. Inculcate critical thinking, ethics, lifelong learning and creativity needed for industry and society
M3. Cultivate the students with all-round competencies, for career, higher education and self-employability
Programme Educational Objectives (PEOs)
Graduates will be prepared for designing Electrical and Electronics components and systems with creativity and sustainability
Graduates will be skilled in the use of modern tools for critical problem solving and analyzing industrial and societal requirements.
Graduates will be prepared with managerial and leadership skills for career and starting up own firms
Program Specific Outcomes (PSOs)
Engineering Graduates will be able to
Apply the acquired knowledge in conventional and non-conventional energy systems to provide acceptable solutions for industrial, societal and entrepreneurial needs
Evaluate, analyze and design components and systems for electric vehicles & hybrid vehicles that are sustainable and eco-friendly.
Engineering Knowledge: Apply the knowledge of mathematics, science, engineering fundamentals, and an engineering specialization to the solution of complex engineering problems.
Problem Analysis:Identify, formulate, review research literature, and analyze complex engineering problems reaching substantiated conclusions using first principles of mathematics, natural sciences, and engineering sciences.
Design/Development Of Solutions: Design solutions for complex engineering problems and design system components or processes that meet the specified needs with appropriate consideration for the public health and safety, and the cultural, societal, and environmental considerations.
Conduct Investigations of Complex Problems:Use research-based knowledge and research methods including design of experiments, analysis and interpretation of data, and synthesis of the information to provide valid conclusions.
Modern Tool Usage:Create, select, and apply appropriate techniques, resources, and modern engineering and IT tools including prediction and modeling to complex engineering activities with an understanding of the limitations.
The Engineer and Society: Apply reasoning informed by the contextual knowledge to assess societal, health, safety, legal and cultural issues and the consequent responsibilities relevant to the professional engineering practice.
Environment and Sustain ability: Understand the impact of the professional engineering solutions in societal and environmental contexts, and demonstrate the knowledge of, and need for sustainable development.
Ethics: Apply ethical principles and commit to professional ethics and responsibilities and norms of the engineering practice.
Individual and Team Work: Function effectively as an individual, and as a member or leader in diverse teams, and in multi disciplinary settings.
Communication: Communicate effectively on complex engineering activities with the engineering community and with society at large, such as, being able to comprehend and write effective reports and design documentation, make effective presentations, and give and receive clear instructions.
Project Management and Finance: Demonstrate knowledge and understanding of the engineering and management principles and apply these to one's own work, as a member and leader in a team, to manage projects and in multi disciplinary environments.
Life-long Learning: Recognize the need for, and have the preparation and ability to engage in independent and life-long learning in the broadest context of technological change.
Job opportunities in India and Abroad. ( Both Public & Private Sectors)
Electrical motors and Generators, Manufacturing, Consultancy (Electrical Engineering), Electrical appliances, Electrical
components companies, Lighting & luminaries, Power Generation, Electric wires & Cables, Electrical exporters, Measurements & Instrumentation,
Power Distribution, Transformers, Manufacturing Industries, Green Energy Companies in India.
Employment Forecast: Electrical & Electronics Engineering - 2025–2030 in India.
( Based on current trends, government policy, industry shifts, and emerging technologies)
Major national investment in solar, wind, and hybrid energy (target: 500 GW by 2030)
Rise in demand for Power systems engineers, Grid integrators, and Solar plant Designer.
India’s EV market projected to grow at 40% CAGR
Strong demand for Power electronics, Battery management systems (BMS), Motor control, and Embedded system engineers
Smart Grids & Energy Automation.
Deployment of Smart meters, IoT in transmission, and load balancing algorithms
Need for EEE engineers with knowledge in IoT, Data analytics, and AI integration.
Semiconductor & Electronics Manufacturing (PLI Scheme)
Boost from government’s Production-Linked Incentive (PLI) scheme for electronics and chip manufacturing
Rise in job demand in PCB design, VLSI, microelectronics, and hardware design
Massive growth in Telecom infrastructure, Optical fiber networks, & IoT eco systems
High demand for RF engineers, signal processing, and embedded firmware developers
Sector-Wise Employment Growth Projections
Grid engineer, inverter designer, SCADA
BMS, Motor control, Embedded systems
Substation, load dispatch, Protection systems
VLSI, PCB design, ASIC/FPGA engineers
PLC / SCADA, Robotics integration, IIoT
RF, Embedded C, DSP, IoT firmware
Design, systems, product development
Focus on IoT, Power electronics, MATLAB, Embedded Systems, AI &IOT
Information for Dr. JEHA J: The S.No. is Dr. JEHA J. The Name is Professor. The Designation is 17.08.2022. The Date of Joining is M.E., Ph.D.. The Qualification is Regular. 
Information for Dr. DEVIKALA S: The S.No. is Dr. DEVIKALA S. The Name is Professor. The Designation is 13.03.2023. The Date of Joining is M.E., Ph.D.. The Qualification is Regular. 
Information for Dr. KAMALASELVAN A: The S.No. is Dr. KAMALASELVAN A. The Name is Assistant Professor. The Designation is 13.05.2022. The Date of Joining is M.E., Ph.D.. The Qualification is Regular. 
Information for Mr. CHINTALA VENKATESH: The S.No. is Mr. CHINTALA VENKATESH. The Name is Assistant Professor. The Designation is 18.12.2019. The Date of Joining is M.E., (Ph.D.). The Qualification is Regular. 
Information for Mr. SURESH N: The S.No. is Mr. SURESH N. The Name is Assistant Professor. The Designation is 01.08.2022. The Date of Joining is M.E., (Ph.D.). The Qualification is Regular. 
Information for Mr. VINODH S V: The S.No. is Mr. VINODH S V. The Name is Assistant Professor. The Designation is 01.08.2023. The Date of Joining is M.E.. The Qualification is Regular. 
Information for Ms. ANUPREYAA K: The S.No. is Ms. ANUPREYAA K. The Name is Assistant Professor. The Designation is 02.01.2023. The Date of Joining is M.E.. The Qualification is Regular. 
Information for Ms. GAYATHRI ACHANTA: The S.No. is Ms. GAYATHRI ACHANTA. The Name is Assistant Professor. The Designation is 21.07.2023. The Date of Joining is M.E.. The Qualification is Regular. 
Information for Dr. JEHA J: The S.No. is Dr. JEHA J. The Name is M.E., Ph.D.. The Qualification is Associate Professor. The Designation is Power Systems. The Area of Specialization is 2. 
Control and Instrumentation Engineering
Control and Instrumentation Engineering
Information for Mr. MAHADEVAN J: The S.No. is Mr. MAHADEVAN J. The Name is M.E., (Ph.D.). The Qualification is Assistant Professor. The Designation is Power Electronics. The Area of Specialization is 2. 
Information for Mrs. DHARAGESHWARI K: The S.No. is Mrs. DHARAGESHWARI K. The Name is M.E.. The Qualification is Assistant Professor. The Designation is High Voltage Engineering. The Area of Specialization is 2. 
Information for Control & Instrumentation Lab: The S.No. is Control & Instrumentation Lab. The Facility Available is EE8511. The Courses_Offered is - Control & Instrumentation. 
Information for Engineering Practices Lab: The S.No. is Engineering Practices Lab. The Facility Available is GE8261. The Courses_Offered is - Engineering Practices. 
Information for Power Electronics Lab: The S.No. is Power Electronics Lab. The Facility Available is EE8661. The Courses_Offered is - Power Electronics. 
Information for Power System Simulation Lab: The S.No. is Power System Simulation Lab. The Facility Available is EE8711. The Courses_Offered is - Power System Simulation. 
Information for Renewable Energy Lab: The S.No. is Renewable Energy Lab. The Facility Available is EE8712. The Courses_Offered is - Renewable Energy. 
Information for Electrical Machines Lab: The S.No. is Electrical Machines Lab. The Facility Available is EE8261 - Basic Electrical Electronics and Instrumentation Engineering. The Courses_Offered is EE8311 - Electrical Machines - I. The Virtual Link / ICT Tools is EE8411 - Electrical Machines - II. The Soft copy of Lab Record is EE8361 - Electrical Engineering. 
Anna university Regulation, Syllabus
2021 Regulation Course Materials
Information for MA3303: The S.No. is MA3303. The Subject is Probability and Complex Functions. The Plan is 2. The Question is EE3301. The Bank is Electromagnetic Fields. The Semester III is 3. 
C Programming and Data Structures
Environmental Sciences and Sustainability
Measurements and Instrumentation
Microprocessor and Microcontroller
Utilization and Conservation of Electrical Energy
2017 Regulation Course Materials
Information for MA3303: The S.No. is MA3303. The Subject is Probability and Complex Functions. The Plan is 2. The Question is EE3301. The Bank is Electromagnetic Fields. The Semester III is 3. 
C Programming and Data Structures
List of Events Conducted Details
Professional Society Activities
AICTE Scholarship/Fellowship Schemes
© 2023 MSAJCE All Rights Reserved | 1635387 Visitors
PEO1. | Graduates will be prepared for designing Electrical and Electronics components and systems with creativity and sustainability
PEO2. | Graduates will be skilled in the use of modern tools for critical problem solving and analyzing industrial and societal requirements.
PEO3. | Graduates will be prepared with managerial and leadership skills for career and starting up own firms
PSO1. | Apply the acquired knowledge in conventional and non-conventional energy systems to provide acceptable solutions for industrial, societal and entrepreneurial needs
PSO2. | Evaluate, analyze and design components and systems for electric vehicles & hybrid vehicles that are sustainable and eco-friendly.
PO1. | Engineering Knowledge: Apply the knowledge of mathematics, science, engineering fundamentals, and an engineering specialization to the solution of complex engineering problems.
PO2. | Problem Analysis:Identify, formulate, review research literature, and analyze complex engineering problems reaching substantiated conclusions using first principles of mathematics, natural sciences, and engineering sciences.
PO3. | Design/Development Of Solutions: Design solutions for complex engineering problems and design system components or processes that meet the specified needs with appropriate consideration for the public health and safety, and the cultural, societal, and environmental considerations.
PO4. | Conduct Investigations of Complex Problems:Use research-based knowledge and research methods including design of experiments, analysis and interpretation of data, and synthesis of the information to provide valid conclusions.
PO5. | Modern Tool Usage:Create, select, and apply appropriate techniques, resources, and modern engineering and IT tools including prediction and modeling to complex engineering activities with an understanding of the limitations.
PO6. | The Engineer and Society: Apply reasoning informed by the contextual knowledge to assess societal, health, safety, legal and cultural issues and the consequent responsibilities relevant to the professional engineering practice.
PO7. | Environment and Sustain ability: Understand the impact of the professional engineering solutions in societal and environmental contexts, and demonstrate the knowledge of, and need for sustainable development.
PO8. | Ethics: Apply ethical principles and commit to professional ethics and responsibilities and norms of the engineering practice.
PO9. | Individual and Team Work: Function effectively as an individual, and as a member or leader in diverse teams, and in multi disciplinary settings.
PO10. | Communication: Communicate effectively on complex engineering activities with the engineering community and with society at large, such as, being able to comprehend and write effective reports and design documentation, make effective presentations, and give and receive clear instructions.
PO11. | Project Management and Finance: Demonstrate knowledge and understanding of the engineering and management principles and apply these to one's own work, as a member and leader in a team, to manage projects and in multi disciplinary environments.
PO12. | Life-long Learning: Recognize the need for, and have the preparation and ability to engage in independent and life-long learning in the broadest context of technological change.
Sector | Projected Job Growth (2025–30) | Key Roles In Demand
Renewable Energy | 10–12% per year | Grid engineer, inverter designer, SCADA
Electric Vehicles & Mobility | 15–18% per year | BMS, Motor control, Embedded systems
Power Transmission & Utilities | 5–7% per year | Substation, load dispatch, Protection systems
Semiconductor & Electronics | 12–15% per year | VLSI, PCB design, ASIC/FPGA engineers
Automation/Industry 4.0 | 8–10% per year | PLC / SCADA, Robotics integration, IIoT
Telecom & 5G | 10–12% per year | RF, Embedded C, DSP, IoT firmware
Education Level | Opportunities | Job Growth Rate | Recommendations
B.Tech/B.E. | Design, systems, product development | 7–9% | Focus on IoT, Power electronics, MATLAB, Embedded Systems, AI &IOT