--- SOURCE: https://www.msajce-edu.in/Incubation&Startup.php ---
MSAJCE | Mohamed Sathak A. J. College of Engineering | B.E | B.Tech | M.E | Admissions | Best Top Engineering College In Chennai
Teachers & Engineers Day 2025 Celebration Photos New |
Internship Report Format - 2025 New |
Internship Report Format - 2025 - Download Here |
18th Graduation Day 22 Feb 2025 Photos New |
Admission 2026 - 2027 Flyer New |
AICTE-ATAL Sponsored Six Days FDP New |
17th Graduation Day Photos New |
Admission Open 2026-2027 - Online Application Form |
Grievance Cell - grievance@msajce-edu.in |
The Feedback Facility of Students and Faculty Available in the AICTE Web Portal New
Grievance and Redressal Committee
Sathak Innovation and Incubation Foundation
National Innovation and Startup Policy
Entrepreneurship Development Cell
Sathak Innovation and Incubation Foundation
The main objects to be pursued by the company upon its incorporationare:
To promote commerce, science, education and research by helping, establishing and incubating startups,
individuals, teams with innovative ideas to make prototypes and to convert them into Products.
To promote a culture of innovation driven entrepreneurship in the fields of science, engineering, technology,
commerce, agriculture, health care, medicine, pharmacy, education, arts, sports and other various fields.
To establish, help establish and or manage infrastructure, laboratories, to make and test prototypes/products,
pilot plant production facilities, software development facilities, training and human resource development centre,
propogate new scientific and technologies development and innovation from idea stage to full scale commercial production
or any part of this chain. For the above purposes to assist, co- operate or collaborates with any establishment,
laboratory, technology business incubators centre, organisation or institution in India or abroad.
Various programs and initiatives to support aspiring entrepreneurs and early-stage startups.
Incubation services, which typically include 5000 sqft. physical office space, several 100,
400, 700 seater halls for conducting many events in Entrepreneurship, infrastructure, and shared resources for startups.
Funding opportunities to startups through grants, seed funding, or connections to potential investors.
Mentorship programs where experienced professionals and industry experts provide guidance and support to entrepreneurs and startups.
Access to a network of investors, venture capitalists, and angel investors who are interested in supporting innovative ideas and startups.
Organizes events, workshops, and training programs to foster innovation, entrepreneurial skills, and knowledge sharing.
Facilitates partnerships with academic institutions, industry bodies, and government agencies to create synergies and opportunities for startups.
Mohamed Sathak A.J. College of Engineering
National Innovation and Startup Policy
To cater the needs of student entrepreneurs with innovative ideas there by introducing a culture of entrepreneurship inside campus which will strengthen our education system and there by promoting the national economic and social growth
ecosystem with required infrastructure that can enable students and faculty to
innovate and prototype their potential ideas with industrial standards and
support from Government, industry and reputed academic institutions around the
world and help them to realize their potentials.
help student groups to prototype their ideas.
improve innovation, creative and design thinking among student community.
facility for faculty driven start-up and student/Alumni start-up.
FDP, seminars and workshops, distinguish talks for students, Faculty and Alumni
and promote entrepreneurial culture.
institute industry interaction cell activity and effectively use the outcomes
Associate with DST, CII, MSME and other academic institutions for transferring world class facility for MSAJCE IEDC activities.
Improve quality of research work among students and to attain patent, which can be commercially used in production.
Provide a platform for students to develop innovative products with global recognition and generate business opportunities.
Generate revenues through consultancy work and student start-ups.
Spread awareness to students and faculty regarding IPR related activities.
Strategic partnership linkage with
Entrepreneurship Development Institute of India (EDII), Chennai.
National Innovation Foundation (NIF) of India to submit ideas and apply for schemes.
Procure fund from AICTE for Entrepreneurship Development Cell.
Information for Dr. K.S. Srinivasan Principal, Mohamed Sathak A.J. College of Engineering (MSAJCE), Chennai: The Name is Dr. K.S. Srinivasan Principal, Mohamed Sathak A.J. College of Engineering (MSAJCE), Chennai. The POSITION is President. 
Information for Mr. Prakadesh Subramanian Strategic Partner, SIIF, Chennai.: The Name is Mr. Prakadesh Subramanian Strategic Partner, SIIF, Chennai.. The POSITION is Incubation Coordinator. 
Information for Mr.Parvez Aalam CEO, Crescent Innovation Incubation Council, Chennai: The Name is Mr.Parvez Aalam CEO, Crescent Innovation Incubation Council, Chennai. The POSITION is Incubation Coordinator. 
Information for Mr.Thiyagaraja Gupta Deputy Controller of Patents and Designs: The Name is Mr.Thiyagaraja Gupta Deputy Controller of Patents and Designs. The POSITION is Patent Expert. 
Information for Ahamed Jamel AMT IT consultant, 4A technology: The Name is Ahamed Jamel AMT IT consultant, 4A technology. The POSITION is Alumni Entrepreneur. 
Information for Abdur Rahim Salih Director & CEO V5 Innovations Pvt,Ltd: The Name is Abdur Rahim Salih Director & CEO V5 Innovations Pvt,Ltd. The POSITION is Alumni Entrepreneur. 
Information for Asim Ali. L CMO, Customer Labs: The Name is Asim Ali. L CMO, Customer Labs. The POSITION is Alumni Entrepreneur. 
Information for To develop Strategies and governance for Promoting Innovation Entrepreneurship in the institute: The PLAN is To develop Strategies and governance for Promoting Innovation Entrepreneurship in the institute. 
Information for Creating Innovation Pipeline and Pathways for Entrepreneurs and Startups.: The PLAN is Creating Innovation Pipeline and Pathways for Entrepreneurs and Startups.. 
Information for Building Organizational Capacity, Human Resources and Incentive: The PLAN is Building Organizational Capacity, Human Resources and Incentive. 
Information for Collaboration, Co-creation, Business Relationship and knowledge Exchange: The PLAN is Collaboration, Co-creation, Business Relationship and knowledge Exchange. 
Information for Incubation & Pre-Incubation support at SIIF: The PLAN is Incubation & Pre-Incubation support at SIIF. 
Information for IP Ownership Rights for Technologies Developed at MSAJCE and SIIF.: The PLAN is IP Ownership Rights for Technologies Developed at MSAJCE and SIIF.. 
Information for Pedagogy & Learning Interventions for Supporting Innovations & Start-ups: The PLAN is Pedagogy & Learning Interventions for Supporting Innovations & Start-ups. 
Information for Entrepreneurial Performance Impact Assessment: The PLAN is Entrepreneurial Performance Impact Assessment. 
Key Performance Indicators (KPIs)
Increase in Self-Employment Rate
5 Established Start-ups per year
Establish the Environment with multiple level of support for innovation & Entrepreneurship and startups.
Students will choose Entrepreneurship as career
All the student & faculty with entrepreneurship Orientation
Student & faculty motivated to start any entrepreneurial activity
5 IPR/Innovations developed ideas/year
5 Student/Early-Stage Start-ups to be formed/year.
In-house Expert Capacity facility available for Advisory Services
25% of Student & faculty mass exposed to awareness/orientation building programs
Students covered through entrepreneurship Education; MOOC, Class Room, Experiential Learning programs etc.
250 of beneficiaries are accessing the infrastructure & facilities per day, month & Year
25% innovators identified; 25 of awarded,/recognized; 25 of Supported
5% Student projects turn to (commercialize) Innovations
5 of IPR based product/services generated and registration filed
In-house trained professional developed for advisory services
5 of Research Studies on Entrepreneurship published
2 of Regional, National and International linkages established for the start-up & innovation
5% Representatives of experts & entrepreneurial students across Dept. & Disciplines.
5 of Beneficiaries Referred to Incubators/investors for further support through Start-up Cell
10 of Beneficiaries generated under various schemes and programs leveraged and converged at Start-up Cell
5 Education/Skill certification program on Entrepreneurship, IIPR, Innovation etc.
25 of workshops, awareness, and market outreach events, orientation, advocacy meetings etc.
12 of networking event (Intra and Inter-institutional, enablers, stakeholders) organized
5 of skill and competency development training programs/FDPs/EDPs organized.
5 of research studies related to Entrepreneurship conducted
01 of national and regional award and campus Hackathon like events organized
Incentivizing Entrepreneurship and Innovation; services and facilities; Start-up Manual, policies, tool kits etc.
1% of total budget/year spend against total institution revenue for start-up
Budget allocation and Spend ratio for the start-up mandate in institute
Tentative plan for the next 5 years
One Day Workshop on “Entrepreneurship and Innovation as Career Opportunity”
One Day Workshop on Problem Solving/Design Thinking/Ideation Workshop/ Campus Hackathon etc
Field/Exposure Visit to Village/Society /School/Industry/Market – Identity real Life Problem
Special Talk on My Story - Entrepreneur’s Life & Crossroad – Motivational Speak - To be Share by Entrepreneurs
Product Development Phases - Story Telling - (Innovators in Campus)
National Conference/workshop on Start-up/Social Innovation & Entrepreneurship
Demo Day – Exhibition Cum Demo for PoCs & Mentorship Session for Innovators (or) Student Entrepreneurs
Internship at Innovation & Start-up Centre/Startups/Incubation Unit etc. during Semester Break
Field/Exposure Visit to Incubation Unit/Patent Facilitation Centre/Technology Transfer Centre
One Day Awareness/Mentoring Session on IPR & IP Management for Innovation and Start-ups
Field/Exposure Visit to Design Centre/Makers’ Space/Fab Lab/Prototype Lab/Tinkering Lab etc.
Seminar on Accelerator/Incubation - Opportunity for Student Faculty - Early-Stage Entrepreneurs
Seminar on Understanding Angel and Venture Capital Funding - What is there for Early-Stage Innovator & Entrepreneurs
Boot camp for Innovation product development
Workshop Funding Opportunities for Innovation and Entrepreneurship Development
SATHAKATHON-A National Level 24Hrs - Hackathon
Short Term Training course on Innovation /Start-up & Entrepreneurship
Entrepreneurship Development Cell
1. Encourage the students to become entrepreneurs by organizing entrepreneurship development programs and make them to participate in the activities organized by the external agencies.
2. Organize the training for Startup / Incubator and arrange the mentoring to proceed further.
3. Coordinate with Strategy partner of Sathak Innovation Incubation Cell (SIIF)
Mr.S.V. Vinodh/ EEE (Head EDC & HEC) Mrs.N.Kavitha / MBA
Institution Innovation Council (IIC)
Institution Innovation Council (IIC-MSAJCE) had been constituted in our college as per the
guidelines of the Ministry of Human Resource Development Innovation Cell (MIC)
Ministry of Human Resource Development (MHRD), Govt. of India has established ‘MHRD’s Innovation Cell (MIC)’
to systematically foster the culture of Innovation amongst all Higher Education Institutions (HEIs).
The primary mandate of MIC is to encourage, inspire and nurture young students by supporting them to work
with new ideas and transform them into prototypes while they are informative years.
MIC has envisioned encouraging creation of ‘Institution’s Innovation Council (IICs)’ across selected HEIs.
A network of these IICs will be established to promote innovation in the Institution through multitudinous
modes leading to an innovation promotion eco-system in the campuses.
To create a vibrant local innovation ecosystem. Start-up supporting Mechanism in HEIs. Prepare institute for
Atal Ranking of Institutions on Innovation Achievements Framework. establish Function at Ecosystem for Scouting Ideas
and Pre-incubation of Ideas. Develop better Cognitive Ability for Technology Students.
To conduct various innovation and entrepreneurship-related activities prescribed by ministry of Education's Innovation
cell as and when announced by it.
Identify and reward innovations and share success stories
Organize periodic workshops/ seminars/ interactions with entrepreneurs, investors, professionals and
create a mentor pool for student innovators
Network with peers and national entrepreneurship development organizations
Create an Institution’s Innovation portal to highlight innovative projects carried out by institution’s faculty and students
Organize Hackathons, idea competition, mini-challenges etc. with the involvement of industries
To be a centre of excellence for transforming students into proficient Electrical and Electronics Engineers through sustainable practices.
M1. Impart core fundamental knowledge and necessary skills in Electrical and Electronics Engineering through innovative teaching and learning methodology
M2. Inculcate critical thinking, ethics, lifelong learning and creativity needed for industry and society
M3. Cultivate the students with all-round competencies, for career, higher education and self-employability
Associate Professor & NISP Coordinator
Information for Poster Presentation Competition: The Name of the Activity is Poster Presentation Competition. The Date is 30.08.2023. The No. of. Beneficiary is 40 Students. The Department Association is 02 Faculties. The Offline / Online is EEE. The Report is Offline. 
Achieving Value “preposition Fit and Business fit
Innovation and Stat up Ecosystem Enablers From the region level
Lean Start up & Minimum Viable Product/Business
Innovations and Entrepreneurship Outreach Program in Schools/Community
Angel investments and VC Funding Opportunity for Early Stage Entrepreneurs
Online Sessions On Acceleration –Early
Workshop on Intellectual Property Rights (IPRS) and IP management for start up
Session/ Workshop on Business Model Canvas (BMC)
Session on ‘How to plan for Start-up and legal & Ethical Steps’
Inter/intra institutional innovation competition/challenge/ hackathon and reward best innovations - manage through yukti-nir
Organize an Expert talk on Process of Innovation Development, Technology Readiness Level (TRL), Commercialisation of Lab Technologies & tech-Transfer.
Mentoring Event: Demo Day/Exhibition/Poster presentation of Innovations/Photo types & linkage with Innovation Ambassadors/Expert for Mentorship Support – Manage through YUKTI-NIR
Workshop on Design Thinking, Critical thinking and innovation Design
Organizing Innovation and Entrepreneurship outreach program in Schools/Community
Field/Exposure Visit to Pre-incubation units such as Ideas Lab, Fab lab, Makesr Space, Design centres, City MSME clusters, workshops etc.
KAPILA Kalam program for IP Literacy & Awareness
Workshop on Entrepreneurship skill, Attitude and Behaviour Development
Workshop on “Entrepreneurship and Innovation as Career Opportunity”
Inter/intra institutional idea competition/challenge/hackathon and reward best ideas - manage through yukti-nir
Personality Development and Business Etiquette
Mohamed Sathak A.J. College of Engineering
Mohamed Sathak A.J. College of Engineering
Information for Mohamed Jassim .M: The S.No. is Mohamed Jassim .M. The Name of the Student is II. The Year is 2. The Department Of Civil Engineering is Veera Kumar .M. 
Department of Mechanical Engineering
Department of Computer Science and Engineering
Department of Information Technology
Department of Electronics and Communication Engineering
Department of Electrical and Electronics Engineering
AICTE Scholarship/Fellowship Schemes
© 2023 MSAJCE All Rights Reserved | 1635387 Visitors
a) | To promote commerce, science, education and research by helping, establishing and incubating startups,
individuals, teams with innovative ideas to make prototypes and to convert them into Products.
b) | To promote a culture of innovation driven entrepreneurship in the fields of science, engineering, technology,
commerce, agriculture, health care, medicine, pharmacy, education, arts, sports and other various fields.
c) | To establish, help establish and or manage infrastructure, laboratories, to make and test prototypes/products,
pilot plant production facilities, software development facilities, training and human resource development centre,
propogate new scientific and technologies development and innovation from idea stage to full scale commercial production
or any part of this chain. For the above purposes to assist, co- operate or collaborates with any establishment,
laboratory, technology business incubators centre, organisation or institution in India or abroad.
Mohamed Sathak A.J. College of Engineering