--- SOURCE: https://www.msajce-edu.in/karma.php ---
MSAJCE | Mohamed Sathak A. J. College of Engineering | B.E | B.Tech | M.E | Admissions | Best Top Engineering College In Chennai
Teachers & Engineers Day 2025 Celebration Photos New |
Internship Report Format - 2025 New |
Internship Report Format - 2025 - Download Here |
18th Graduation Day 22 Feb 2025 Photos New |
Admission 2026 - 2027 Flyer New |
AICTE-ATAL Sponsored Six Days FDP New |
17th Graduation Day Photos New |
Admission Open 2026-2027 - Online Application Form |
Grievance Cell - grievance@msajce-edu.in |
The Feedback Facility of Students and Faculty Available in the AICTE Web Portal New
Grievance and Redressal Committee
Kaushal Augmentation and Restructuring Mission of AICTE
Kaushal Augmentation and Restructuring Mission of AICTE (KARMA)
AICTE is initiating “Kaushal Augmentation and Restructuring Mission of AICTE” (KARMA)
for all AICTE approved institutions in the country to overcome the dual challenge of scarcity of skilled
manpower in jobs and low skill level of those who are presently in jobs.
Strategically planned skill initiatives to create skilled and certified workforce,
who not only contribute towards the growth of India but also drive the country into becoming
Encourage the institutions for making the best use of available infrastructure of
higher education system during off hours for skill training by re-aligning the existing
infrastructure for the skill courses specially, training AIDS, syllabus, curriculum etc.
as per NSQF aligned Qualifications.
This scheme is applicable to the candidate who have passed at least10th standard/ ITIs
The training under the Scheme shall be, any domain-specific demand-led skill
training activity preferably in core engineering sectors leading to employment.
Three Skilling Models Under Karma:
AICTE has proposed three Models for Skilling of In-school students/
school dropouts, students perusing Technical Education:
Model 1:Targeting School Dropouts after class 10th pass (long back and recent).
Model 2: Targeting Advance level Skilling of students already studying in AICTE
approved Technical institutions. A program for the Skill up-gradation of present technical
students will be introduced for making them industry-ready where advance skilling courses
will be offered during 4th - 7th semester for making them industry ready. Assessment and
other criteria’s will be similar to KARMA.
Model 3: Integrating School Education with Higher Education for skilling
students. Education needs to shift from corrective to connective, transactional to
relational. Henceforth, to establish a connect between HEIs and schools, AICTE is
suggesting its institutions to start once a week Skill based training for the nearby
school students in a “Hub and Spoke” Model.
The Mohamed Sathak A J College of Engineering was approved by AICTE
to conduct 5 courses in model 2 with an approved intake of in : 1) AI -Machine learning
Developer, 2) Refrigeration and Air Conditioning Technician, 3) Additive Manufacturing
Technician (3D Printing), 4) Certificate Course in Embedded System Design using ARM/
5) Architectural Drafting and Basic 3D Design with Autodesk Revit (MES).
In Model 1 the Institute was approved by AICTE to conduct 2 courses
with an approved intake of 30 students namely : 1) Computer Hardware Network Maintenance
and 2) Refrigeration And Air Conditioning Technician with
The Institute has registered the following 5 courses in model 2 and
currently the courses are in process.
Refrigeration And Air Conditioning Technician
Additive Manufacturing Technician (3D Printing) (CTS)
Certificate Course in Embedded System Design using ARM/ Cortex Microcontroller
Architectural Drafting and Basic 3D Design with Autodesk Revit (MES)
Information for Approval Letter – Model 1: The S.No. is Approval Letter – Model 1. The Details is https://facilities.aicte-india.org/KARMA/letter_r_karma_model1.php?app_id=MS05NzU2MzUx&model=model1. The Weblink is 2. 
https://facilities.aicte-india.org/KARMA/letter_r_karma_model2.php?app_id=MS05NzU2MzUx&model=model2
https://facilities.aicte-india.org/KARMA/review_data.php?app_id=MS05NzU2MzUx
National Innovation and Startup Policy
Entrepreneurship Development Cell
Academic Calender - Higher Semester (Odd Semester - 2022-2023)
Academic Calender - Higher Semester (Even Semester - 2021-2022)
Academic Calender - First Year (Even Semester - 2021-2022)
Information for Mohamed Jassim .M: The S.No. is Mohamed Jassim .M. The Name of the Student is II. The Year is 2. The Department Of Civil Engineering is Veera Kumar .M. 
Department of Mechanical Engineering
Department of Computer Science and Engineering
Department of Information Technology
Department of Electronics and Communication Engineering
Department of Electrical and Electronics Engineering
AICTE Scholarship/Fellowship Schemes
© 2023 MSAJCE All Rights Reserved | 1635387 Visitors
| Strategically planned skill initiatives to create skilled and certified workforce,
who not only contribute towards the growth of India but also drive the country into becoming
| Encourage the institutions for making the best use of available infrastructure of
higher education system during off hours for skill training by re-aligning the existing
infrastructure for the skill courses specially, training AIDS, syllabus, curriculum etc.
as per NSQF aligned Qualifications.
| This scheme is applicable to the candidate who have passed at least10th standard/ ITIs
| The training under the Scheme shall be, any domain-specific demand-led skill
training activity preferably in core engineering sectors leading to employment.
| Model 1:Targeting School Dropouts after class 10th pass (long back and recent).
| Model 2: Targeting Advance level Skilling of students already studying in AICTE
approved Technical institutions. A program for the Skill up-gradation of present technical
students will be introduced for making them industry-ready where advance skilling courses
will be offered during 4th - 7th semester for making them industry ready. Assessment and
other criteria’s will be similar to KARMA.
| Model 3: Integrating School Education with Higher Education for skilling
students. Education needs to shift from corrective to connective, transactional to
relational. Henceforth, to establish a connect between HEIs and schools, AICTE is
suggesting its institutions to start once a week Skill based training for the nearby
school students in a “Hub and Spoke” Model.
| AI -Machine learning Developer
| Refrigeration And Air Conditioning Technician
| Additive Manufacturing Technician (3D Printing) (CTS)
| Certificate Course in Embedded System Design using ARM/ Cortex Microcontroller
| Architectural Drafting and Basic 3D Design with Autodesk Revit (MES)