--- SOURCE: https://www.msajce-edu.in/listofsupervisors.php ---
MSAJCE | Mohamed Sathak A. J. College of Engineering | B.E | B.Tech | M.E | Admissions | Best Top Engineering College In Chennai
Teachers & Engineers Day 2025 Celebration Photos New |
Internship Report Format - 2025 New |
Internship Report Format - 2025 - Download Here |
18th Graduation Day 22 Feb 2025 Photos New |
Admission 2026 - 2027 Flyer New |
AICTE-ATAL Sponsored Six Days FDP New |
17th Graduation Day Photos New |
Admission Open 2026-2027 - Online Application Form |
Grievance Cell - grievance@msajce-edu.in |
The Feedback Facility of Students and Faculty Available in the AICTE Web Portal New
Grievance and Redressal Committee
The Research and Development Cell aims to nurture research culture in the College by promoting research
in newly emerging and challenging areas of Engineering, Technology, Science and Humanities
To encourage the students and faculty members to carry out research in the fields of Engineering, Technology,
Science and Humanities by providing necessary facilities and infrastructures required for carrying out research
To create zeal among the students and faculty towards research and innovation and to encourage them to publish
their findings in conferences and journals
To assist the students to apply funding for conducting research under student project scheme to various funding
agencies like TNSCST, MSME, IEI (I) etc
To work closely with the industry to understand their needs that eventually will result in new or improved products,
processes, systems or services that can increase the company's productivity and also promote Institute- Industry Collaboration
To support the government in serving the society by taking up sponsored projects offered by agencies such as TNSCST, DST,
AICTE, UGC, ISRO, DRDO, CSIR, DBT etc
To enhance the general research capability of budding engineers by way of participating in conferences, seminars,
workshops, project competition, etc.
To organize various workshops/ seminar/ trainings related to promotion of research
To encourage both students and faculty to apply copyrights and patents
Information for Dr.B.Janarthanan,: The Name is Dr.B.Janarthanan,. The Designation is Head-Research, MSAJCE, Chennai.. 
Dr.Srinivasan, Secretary TNSCST, Chennai.
044-22301428, ms.tanscst@nic.in
Dr.Parthiban, Asso.Prof/ Prod. NIT,
Dr.B.Sheela Rani, Dean Research,
Sathyabama University, Chennai. 9840941389, directorresearch@sathyabama.ac.in
Dr.Sabitha Ramakrishnan, Professor, Dept of
9789977989, sabitha.ramakrishnan@gmail.com
Institution Innovation Council (IIC-MSAJCE) had been constituted in our college as per the
guidelines of the Ministry of Human Resource Development Innovation Cell (MIC)
Ministry of Human Resource Development (MHRD), Govt. of India has established ‘MHRD’s Innovation Cell (MIC)’
to systematically foster the culture of Innovation amongst all Higher Education Institutions (HEIs).
The primary mandate of MIC is to encourage, inspire and nurture young students by supporting them to work
with new ideas and transform them into prototypes while they are informative years.
MIC has envisioned encouraging creation of ‘Institution’s Innovation Council (IICs)’ across selected HEIs.
A network of these IICs will be established to promote innovation in the Institution through multitudinous
modes leading to an innovation promotion eco-system in the campuses.
To create a vibrant local innovation ecosystem. Start-up supporting Mechanism in HEIs. Prepare institute for
Atal Ranking of Institutions on Innovation Achievements Framework. establish Function at Ecosystem for Scouting Ideas
and Pre-incubation of Ideas. Develop better Cognitive Ability for Technology Students.
To conduct various innovation and entrepreneurship-related activities prescribed by ministry of Education's Innovation
cell as and when announced by it.
Identify and reward innovations and share success stories
Organize periodic workshops/ seminars/ interactions with entrepreneurs, investors, professionals and
create a mentor pool for student innovators
Network with peers and national entrepreneurship development organizations
Create an Institution’s Innovation portal to highlight innovative projects carried out by institution’s faculty and students
Organize Hackathons, idea competition, mini-challenges etc. with the involvement of industries
Dr. K. S. Srinivasan, Principal
Dr. B. Janarthanan, Professor, MSAJCE
Dr. I. Manju, Professor, MSAJCE
Dr.M. Kanthababu, Professor, Anna University
Dr. N. Alagumurthi, Professor, Pondichery Engineering College
Mr. N. S. Srinivasan, DGM, L & T Infrastructure Development Projects Ltd
Venkatakrishnan sankaran, Vice-President, Levergent Technologies
Mr D Gowri Shankar, Asst.Professor, New Prince Shri Bhanavani College of Engineering
External Member from Mentor Institute
Dr.R.Senthilkumar, Associate Professor
Dr.G.Ramesh, Associate Professor
Dr.A.Balakrishnan, Associate Professor
Dr.G.Premalatha, Associate Professor
Dr.B.Devibala, Assistant Professor
Information for Design of Flexible Pavement using IRC: The S.No. is Design of Flexible Pavement using IRC. The Name of the Event is Self-Driven Activity. The Type of Activity is 2. 
Virtual Workshop on Machine Learning
Online Workshop on Programming Skills
Technological Innovation and Academia Industry Collaboration under Self-Reliant India
FDP on Teaching Engineering Graphics using ICT Tools
Virtual Workshop on Research Methodologies
Basic Refrigeration and Airconditioning
Converting Ideas to Entrepreneurship
National Webinar on Research, Innovation and Ranking/td>
Orientation session for all students & faculties of Institute by Innovation Ambassador(s).
Session on “How to plan for Start-up and legal & amp; Ethical Steps”
IIC Council Meeting- Review of Q2 progress and Planning of Q3
National Level Awareness Programme on Entrepreneurship
Workshop on Design Thinking, Critical thinking and Innovation Design
Workshop on “Entrepreneurship and Innovation as Career Opportunity"
Orientation Session on IIC4.0 & Features
Session on Problem Solving and Ideation Workshop
Workshop on Entrepreneurship Skill, Attitude and Behaviour Development
Internal Hackathon to select team for SIH-2022
Mohamed Sathak A.J. College of Engineering
Department of Mechanical Engineering
Mohamed Sathak A.J. College of Engineering
Email: mech.janarthanan@msajce-edu.in
Department of Electrical and Electronics Engineering
Mohamed Sathak A.J. College of Engineering
Information for Dr. K.S. Srinivasan: The Name is Dr. K.S. Srinivasan. The Anna University Ref. No is 1440364. The Research Area is VLSI Design, Digital Signal and Image Processing. 
Information for Dr. I. Manju: The Name is Dr. I. Manju. The Anna University Ref. No is 3040008. The Research Area is VLSI Design , Video Processing. 
Information for Dr. B. Janarthanan: The Name is Dr. B. Janarthanan. The Anna University Ref. No is 2620054. The Research Area is Machine Design, Mechanical Vibrations, Vehicle Dynamics. 
Information for Dr. G. Ramesh: The Name is Dr. G. Ramesh. The Anna University Ref. No is 4120175. The Research Area is Natural Fiber, Composite Material, Mathematical Modeling. 
Information for Dr. S. Prasath: The Name is Dr. S. Prasath. The Anna University Ref. No is 4220015. The Research Area is Welding Technology, Materials Engineering, Manufacturing Engineering. 
Information for Dr. A. Suvitha: The Name is Dr. A. Suvitha. The Anna University Ref. No is 2070720. The Research Area is Inorganic Chemistry. 
Information for Dr.M.Vigneshkumar: The Name is Dr.M.Vigneshkumar. The Anna University Ref. No is 3910019. The Research Area is Remote Sening, GIS, Survey & Geology, Environmental Engineering. 
Publications Faculty & Students
Books/Book Chapter/Patent Filed/Copy Right
Information for Dr.R.Senthilkumar: The Name is Dr.R.Senthilkumar. The Title of the Book/Chapters/Patent/Copy Right is G. Ramesh. The ISBN/ISSN/Patent Number is Engineering Practices Lab. 
Fundamentals of Electrical Measuring Instruments
Design And Implementation Of A Disaster Management System Using IOT And Cloud Computing Techniques For A
Connected Buildings To Save Lives With Early Warnings
Vehicular Edge Computing Using A Smart Embedded System For Intelligent Transportation
Battery Swapping Smart Station for Future E-Vehicle Transportation
A Vehicle Tire Control System at curved roads using intelligent interfaces and support vector machines
Real time based IOT Enabled Smart Metering System.
Fundamentals of Electrical Measuring Instruments
Computer implemented method of image classification with extreme learning machine
Study on Mechanical Characterization of Graphene reinforced Aluminium Metal Matrix Composites
Data Science for COVID -19 (Elsevier)
Applications of Big Data in Health Care
Impact of Lockdown for Research Scholars
Principles of Communication Engineering
Electric Circuits and Electronic Devices
Basic Electrical and Electronics Engineering
Electronic Devices and Circuits
Electronics and Microprocessors
Electronic Devices and Circuits (As per the JNTU Syllabus)
Monograph on Fundamentals of electrical measuring instruments
AICTE Scholarship/Fellowship Schemes
© 2023 MSAJCE All Rights Reserved | 1635387 Visitors
| To encourage the students and faculty members to carry out research in the fields of Engineering, Technology,
Science and Humanities by providing necessary facilities and infrastructures required for carrying out research
| To create zeal among the students and faculty towards research and innovation and to encourage them to publish
their findings in conferences and journals
| To assist the students to apply funding for conducting research under student project scheme to various funding
agencies like TNSCST, MSME, IEI (I) etc
| To work closely with the industry to understand their needs that eventually will result in new or improved products,
processes, systems or services that can increase the company's productivity and also promote Institute- Industry Collaboration
| To support the government in serving the society by taking up sponsored projects offered by agencies such as TNSCST, DST,
AICTE, UGC, ISRO, DRDO, CSIR, DBT etc
| To enhance the general research capability of budding engineers by way of participating in conferences, seminars,
workshops, project competition, etc.
| To organize various workshops/ seminar/ trainings related to promotion of research
| To encourage both students and faculty to apply copyrights and patents