--- SOURCE: https://www.msajce-edu.in/placement.php ---
MSAJCE | Mohamed Sathak A. J. College of Engineering | B.E | B.Tech | M.E | Admissions | Best Top Engineering College In Chennai
Teachers & Engineers Day 2025 Celebration Photos New |
Internship Report Format - 2025 New |
Internship Report Format - 2025 - Download Here |
18th Graduation Day 22 Feb 2025 Photos New |
Admission 2026 - 2027 Flyer New |
AICTE-ATAL Sponsored Six Days FDP New |
17th Graduation Day Photos New |
Admission Open 2026-2027 - Online Application Form |
Grievance Cell - grievance@msajce-edu.in |
The Feedback Facility of Students and Faculty Available in the AICTE Web Portal New
Grievance and Redressal Committee
Industry Institution Interaction Cell
In competitive job market, employers expect graduates to have a range of skills and right
experience of the workplace. While it seems a daunting task, we at MSAJCE provide at most care, support support and provide ample
opportunities to help the students to develop the requisite skills and expertise and make them employable graduates.
To provide Employment Opportunities for the students in reputed companies
To organize On and Off Campus Recruitment Drive for the students
To Train the students on the employability skills such as Aptitude Skills, Communication Skills and Technical Skills.
To conduct Value Added Certification courses to gain domain specific knowledge
To conduct Mock Aptitude, Mock interview, Mock GD to prepare the students to face the interview with confidence
To Arranges In plant training, Intenship and industrial visits
To Organize workshop on Recent Technologies by industrial experts which benefits the students to understand the technological innovations.
Besides providing support to entrepreneurial ventures, we keep our employability services
up to date with the demands of the job market and aim to ensure that our graduates are in the strongest position
Well-furnished air conditioned rooms for written test, group discussion and face-to-face interview
Well established Computer labs for online training and examinations
Air conditioned Auditorium/Seminar Halls/Meeting Halls.
Dedicated AC rooms for conducting group discussions
Career counselling is available on the campus directing students to choose the best possible stream that meets their requirement in a unique way. The students have mentors who handle their problems and make them focused about their targets
Information for Placement Training on Aptitude Skills: The S.No. is Placement Training on Aptitude Skills. The Event Name is 01.08.2023 – 06.08.2023. The Duration is 65. The Number of Students is Nexon Technology. The Name of the Agency or Consultant Involved is 2022 - 2023. The 2023 - 2024 is 1. 
One week Soft Skill Training Program
JAVA Full Stack Development Training
ICT Academy and Inspirysys Software Solution
Online Employability Training Program
Association of Muslim Professionals
Virtual Workshop on “Future of making things with Autodesk Fusion 360 Leading with
Workshop on “ Problem Solving &
Effective Communication Skills for Successful Career
Seventh Sense People Development Solutions Pvt Ltd
Seventh Sense People Development Solutions Pvt Ltd
Seventh Sense People Development Solutions Pvt Ltd
Information for An Icebreaking session on Interview Fear: The S.No. is An Icebreaking session on Interview Fear. The Name of the Activity is Mr. Dennie John HR, Doodleblue. The Resource Person / Group is 65. The Number of Participants is 07.02.2023. The Date is 2. The 2022 - 2023 is Online technical Session on How to Crack Datapattern Inteview. 
Senior CFD Consultant, Data Pattern
Online Mock Interview Session on HR and Technical Interview
Senior Devops Engineer, Intel Corporation
Session on How to Positively Face HR Interview
Mr. Dennie John, HR, Doodleblue
Hiremee AI Proctores Online assessment Test
Online Mock Interview Technical Round
Mr.Jameel AhamedSenior Manager, Wipro Technology
Online Mock Interview – HR Interview
Mr. Syed Haja Shereef SRecruitment Specialist, Scelene Works People Solutio Ltd
Online Mock Interview Technical Round
Senior Devops Engineer, Intel Corporation
Green Valleys Shelters Pvt. Ltd.
Shiash Info Solutions Private Limited
National Institute of Wind Energy
Uniconverge Technologies Pvt. Ltd.
TVS Sundaram fasteners, Chennai
Veelog Nanoceramic Private Limited
Kinnagam Interiors and Construction
Vegan Creative Engineering Solutions and Contracting
Precision Instrument & Electronics (Madras) Pvt Ltd
Industry Institution Interaction Cell
Technical Institutes have a closer relationship with society since they were more concerned with the applied aspects of science and technology,
to solve real-world problems, but always there is a gap between Industry and Institute.
In a competitive market due to increasing globalization of business, to and
bridge the gap between the industry and institute is inevitable, hence now a day’s industries and institutes seeks to use strategies, tools and
techniques jointly to increase efficiency and effectiveness of deployable engineers at the same time maximizing quality and minimizing cost.
The MSAJCE understands that better interaction between technical institutions and industry is very essential. So MSAJCE is creating and utilizing the opportunity through
III Cell to collaborate with industries to fulfilling the needs in terms that are mutually acceptable and beneficial way. MSAJCE-III Cell
plays an important role to make
the student as well as faculty to understand present industrial expectations and relevant skill sets required for students. This makes the platform for the students to
be aware of the gaps in their skills and provides an opportunity to upgrade them. It also enables the faculty to train students to meet the industrial expectations and needs.
The objectives of MSAJCE – III Cell are
To sign MoUs with industries for mutual benefit of industry & institution
Organizing workshops, conferences, seminar, guest lecture and symposia with joint participation of the institute and the industries
Encourage the faculty to undergo training in various industries to upgrade their knowledge
Engaging industrial experts to visit MSAJCE and interact with the students and delivering lectures on industrial practices, recent trends and experiences
Involving industrial experts in value added course development
Arranging industrial visits Internships and projects to all the students of various industry
Encouraging professional consultancy by faculty members to industries and industrial testing by faculty or technicians at sites or in institute laboratory
To arrange for faculty development programs to provide them an opportunity to be constantly aware of the latest developments in their field of specialization
Organizing / Arranging Placement drives
Establishing Industry oriented Labs
MSAJCE has established its Industry Institute Interaction cell under the leadership of experts who has rich experience and exposure in industry and academic. The MSAJCE - IIICell team are
Information for Automation Anyware: The S.No. is Automation Anyware. The Mou With is 2023. The Year is 2. 
Association of Muslim profession
SkillSort Technical Solutions Pvt. Ltd.
Intek Security Systems Pvt. Ltd.
Sri Harsha Electrical Industries Pvt. Ltd. Cuddalore
Poly Tech Engineers Electrical Engineers Consultants and Contactors Chennai
Green Valleys Shelters Pvt. Ltd., Chennai
Jet Aerospace Aviation Research Centre
Aeronautical Sector Skill Council
e Yantra Embedded Systems & Robotics Lab
Vee Square Interior & Exterior Designs
Dynamiq Engineering Research Centre
PRECISION INSTRUMENTS & ELECTRONICS (MADRAS) PVT. LTD, CHENNAI
CONSTRUCTION MANAGEMENT TRAINING
Open Wave Computing Services Pvt. Ltd, Chennai
National Skill Qualification Prime Work
Atalon Product Centre Pvt. Ltd.
Preethi Kitchen Appliances Pvt. Ltd.
Breathe Electronics, T-Nagar, Chennai
Information for ISRO Propulsion Research Complex- Mahendragiri: The S.No. is ISRO Propulsion Research Complex- Mahendragiri. The Name of the Industry is III. The Year is MECH, ECE, CSE, IT. The Dept is 45. The Tot. No. of Students is 07.09.2023. The Tentative Date is 2. 
National Institute of Wind Energy Thoraippakkam, Chennai
Water Treatment Plant, Chembarambakkam
AMAZE CONCRETE PRODUCTS PVT LTD Kundrathur Chennai
Napkin Pengal Poocharam at Gerugambakkam Chennai
JVS Electronics Private Limited Bangalore
Indian Institute of Science, Bangalore
Ti Anode Fabricators Private Limited at Madambakkam, Chennai
TiAanode Fabricators, Madambakkam
Water Treatement Plant, Chembarapakkam
Waste Water Treatement Plant Koyambadeu
National Agriculture and Diesel, Gummidipondi
Emerald Engineering (Diamond Group), Pudupakkam & Diamond Engineering Chennai Pvt Ltd, Mambakkam
Dhanalakshmi Rady Mix Concrete, Mambakkam
TiAanode Fabricators, Madambakkam
SatishDhawan Space Centre, Shriharkoto
3rd Cross Street, Institutional Area, Taramani
Department of Space: Government of India,
Emerald Engineering Pvt Ltd and
RETECH solutions pvt,Ltd,Chennai
List of Seminars / Webinars / Guest Lecture / Workshops Organized
Information for Seminar on Using Solid Principles in Application Development: The S.No. is Seminar on Using Solid Principles in Application Development. The Title is 13.09.2023. The of the Program is 81. The Period is Mr.Sivanathan(Alumni MSAJCE - 2006 - 2010)Manager, Software EngineeringADF Data Science Pvt Limited. The / No of Days is 2. The Total is A Session on Mastering the art of Public Speaking crafting an impactful TEDx Talk. The No of Participants is 18.08.2023. The Name is 96. The of the Expert with contact details is Babu Charles Earnest, Founder Justart. 
Information for A seminar on Devops – Kubernetes and Container: The S.No. is A seminar on Devops – Kubernetes and Container. The Title is 08.08.2023. The of the Program is 48. The Period is Mr. Arun NatrajanPrinciple Consultant, Emirates National Bank of Dubai. The / No of Days is 4. The Total is A Seminar on Solar PV system Basics and commercial overview. The No of Participants is 04.08.2023. The Name is 78. The of the Expert with contact details is Mr. Shaik Faithullah STechnical Assistant, Daystar Solar System. 
Information for Seminar on Understanding the Semiconductor Industry and VLSI: The S.No. is Seminar on Understanding the Semiconductor Industry and VLSI. The Title is 18.04.2023. The of the Program is 120. The Period is Mr.. The / No of Days is V S Hariharan. The Total is VP Edveon Technologies. The No of Participants is 6. The Name is Alumni Talk on Recent Trends, Challenges and Opprotunities in Current. The of the Expert with contact details is 03.08.2022. 
Information for Mr.G.Abdur Rahman Salih: The S.No. is Mr.G.Abdur Rahman Salih. The Title is Director & CEO, V5 Innovations Pvt Ltd. The of the Program is 7. The Period is Approaching the placement Season with Confidence. The / No of Days is 11.08.2022. The Total is 116. The No of Participants is Mrs.Madhumitha Sriram Clinical Psychologist,MSAJCE. The Name is 8. The of the Expert with contact details is Expert Talk on Recent Trends and opportunities on Industry. 
Mr. Saravana OerumalSenior Manager, L&T Infotech
Expert talk on Agile Project Management
Mr.Geoffrin Joel, Project Manager, TCS
Expert talks on Recent Trends and Opportunites in IT Industry
Mr. Khader MohideenSenior Manager, FSS Technologies
Mr.Lakshman Babu, Director, Ekaliva Tech Pvt Ltd
Seminar on Cyber Security Trends and Hygiene
Mr.Muhamed Samir Cyber Security Manager, Fidelity National Financial
Career Opportunities in Automotive Design Industry
Mr.Praveen Kumar CEO, Disennosys, Chennai
How to be ready for Post Pandemic Industrial Disruption
Interactive Session on Innovation and Inventions in AI Technology
Anisha Udhayakumar AI Evangelist at Intel Corporation
Ca﻿reer Guidance Program on Competitive Exam
Mr.SivarajvelDirector, Sivarajvel IAS Academy
Career Opportunities in Japan for Indian Students
Mr. Navaneethakrishnan RamanathanHindu Tamil Dheesai
Alumni talk & Interaction “Opportunities in Research and Design”
Awareness Programme on Government Job Opportunities for Engineering Students
Webinar on “ Career options for Civil Engineers”
Seminar on Interpersonal Skills
Mrs. Akila RajeshVoora Property Developer
Career opportunity in Government Sector
Mr.Murgaesan Shankar IAS Academy
Career in the Indian Armed Forces
Awareness Programme on Government Job Opportunities for Engineering Students
Industrial Expert Talk on “ Electric Vehicle”
Expert Talk on “ Mindset Transformation & Habit Creations
Industrial Expert Talk on “ Tunnel Construction & its Constrains
Webinar on “ Key to Secure your IT Future”
Webinar on “ Career Opportunities in EV Industry”
Webinar on “ Career options for Civil Engineers”
One Day Workshop on Ultrasonic Non Destructive Testing
Mr. Agan ATesting Engineer, Vibrant NDT Services Pvt Ltd, Ambattur
How to Build Your Resume by Channel Btech
Cyber Security - Trends & Hygiene
Mr. Muhamed SamirCyber Security Manager, Fidelity National Financial
Hands on Training on UT, LPT & MPT
Mr. Dinesh BabuIEQS, NDT Service, Ponamallee
Co-founder & Director, Ekalaiv Tech Pvt Ltd
Two-Days Workshop on Nxthinking in Innovative Ideas for Entrepreneurs
Dr.K.Balaji Senior Consultant, Technology & Innovation, Learning Links Foundation, Chennai
Mr. Subash Kannan KLead Consultant, Technology & Innovation, Learning Links Foundation, Chennai
Technical Session on How to Crack Data Patterns Interview for Eligible Students
Mr. Jabin J Senior Consultant, CFD-Division, Data Patterns Pvt Ltd
Mock HR and Technical Interviews (Online Session)
Mr. Mohamed Hussain T RSenior Devops Engineer Intel Corporation
Technical Session with Channel Btech for Qburst interview
How to Positively Face the HR Interview
Mr.Syed Kaja SheriffScalen works , Chennai
One Day Workshop on Fluid Power Circuit
Mr. N. Sivashanmugam, M.E,, (Ph.D.)With specialization in
Fluid Power Circuit, Asst.Professor (Srg), Mechanical, Rajalakshmi Institute of Technology, Chennai
Career Enhancement Through GATE
Mr. Murali Karthickeyan Head Academics (Gate), TIME Chennai
Recent Trends and Opportunity in IT Industry
Mr.Khadher Mohideen Senior Manager FSS Technology
Recent Trends and Opportunities in Industries
Approaching the Placement Season with Confidence
Ms.Madhumitha Sriram Clinical Phycologist / MSAJCE
Industry Expectation on Fresher
Mr. Nageshwari RahuDirector AI / Wise Techsource
Hiremee AI Online Proctored Assessment Test
Mr. Prabhu V Territory Manager / Hiremee
Recent Trends, Challenges and Opportunities in Current Scenario
Mr.Abdul Rahim Salih GCEO & Director, VS Innovations Pvt Ltd
Aptitude, Verbal, Reasoning & Soft skill
Dr. Sivakumar SSenior Business Unit Manager, Carsem [M]-Malaysia
Mr. Srinivasan BExecutive Vise President, TATA Motors
Technology in Automobile Industry
Mr. Anantha Raman PrakashVice President-Production, Renault Nission, Chennai
Mr. Balamurugan K ESoftware Engineer,
Mr. Umamaheshwaran Planning Engineer, Larsen & Toubro, Chennai
Scope of Engineering – Induction Day
Mr. Rajesh RamanujamGeneral Manager, Ford, Chennai
Trainning and Placement program
M/s.GUVI Geek Network Private Ltd
Ms.Bargavi Seventh Sense Talent Soultions – Bangalore
INDUSTRY BASED LEARNING - CONSULTANCY PROJECTS
Information for E-Learning Material: The S.No. is E-Learning Material. The Project is Preethi Home Appliances. The Industry is -. The Sponsor is Completed. The Status is 2. 
Design and Development of Smart Chimney
The Higher Education Committee in the institution regularly organizes meetings with successful alumni pursuing higher education and
external agencies among the interested students. It give to better understanding among student almost an insight into the different paths that they can
venture into, the risks and the gains involved. Admissions Counseling provided to study abroad aspirants, with an
aim to optimize their chances of obtaining admissions into the best
possible universities/institutes jointly with external training and service providers.
Functions of the Higher Education Cell
To create the awareness among the students on higher education in India and abroad
To motivate the students to reach their goal through our higher education cell
To realize student potential to its fullest in the Higher Education sector
To guide students to apply and appear for GATE, CAT, GRE and TOEFL examinations
To inform students to participate in programs related to Higher education organized by other colleges
Student Higher Education Details
Name of the students Enrolling into higher education
Mohamed Sathak A.J. College of Engineering
St. Joseph College of Engineering
Mohamed Sathak AJ College of Engineering
Mohamed Sathak AJ College of Engineering
Mohamed Sathak AJ College of Engineering
SRM Valliammai Engineering College
ME Industrial Safety Engineering
M.Tech - MaterialScience and Mettalurgical Engineering
Darmstadt University of Technology, Germany
Darmstadt University of Technology, Germany
Crescent Institute of Science & Technology
M.Tech - VLSI & Embedded System
PSN Engineering College, Rajapalayam
Crescent Institute of Science & Technology
M.Tech - VLSI & Embedded System
Mohamed Sathak AJ College of Engineering
Mohamed Sathak AJ College of Engineering
Crescent Institute of Science & Technology
Government College of Engineering Tirunelveli
Hindustan Institute of Technology & Science
ME - Embedded System Technology
Student Higher Education Supports
Information for Session on IELTS Demo Session: The S.No. is Session on IELTS Demo Session. The Name of the Activity is Mr.Inez Parris IELTS - Trainer, AECC Chennai - Study Abroad Consultant. The Resource Person / Group is 32. The Number of Participants is 29.08.2023. The Date is 2. The 2023 - 2024 is International Education Seminar Presentation with IELTS Importance /strong>. 
Resource Person from IDP – International Education Specialist
A Session on Mastering the art of Public Speaking crafting an impactfull TEDx Talk
Babu Charles Earnest,Founder Justart
Awareness Program on Higher Education in Europe
Seminar on Career Enhancement Through Gate
Mr.Murali Karhickeyan Head Academics – GATE, TIME Chennai
Webinar on Preparation strategy for Common Admission Test
Mr.Sathyanarayanan K S Manager, TIME Chennai
Webinar on “ Career Enhancement through Gate”
Mr.Murali Karhickeyan Head Academics – GATE, TIME Chennai
Career Enhancement Through GATE
Mr.Murali KarhickeyanHead Academics – GATE, TIME Chennai
Mohamed Sathak AJ College of Engineering
34, Rajiv Gandhi Salai (OMR), Siruseri IT Park, Siruseri, Chennai - 603103.
AICTE Scholarship/Fellowship Schemes
© 2023 MSAJCE All Rights Reserved | 1635387 Visitors
| To provide Employment Opportunities for the students in reputed companies
| To organize On and Off Campus Recruitment Drive for the students
| To Train the students on the employability skills such as Aptitude Skills, Communication Skills and Technical Skills.
| To conduct Value Added Certification courses to gain domain specific knowledge
| To conduct Mock Aptitude, Mock interview, Mock GD to prepare the students to face the interview with confidence
| To Arranges In plant training, Intenship and industrial visits
| To Organize workshop on Recent Technologies by industrial experts which benefits the students to understand the technological innovations.
1 | Mr. S.V. Vinodh | Placement Officer
2 | Mr. Ajin Sijo John | Assistant Placement Officer
4 | Mr. V.A. Babu Charies Earnest | Member
| Well-furnished air conditioned rooms for written test, group discussion and face-to-face interview
| Well established Computer labs for online training and examinations
| Air conditioned Auditorium/Seminar Halls/Meeting Halls.
| Dedicated AC rooms for conducting group discussions
| Career counselling is available on the campus directing students to choose the best possible stream that meets their requirement in a unique way. The students have mentors who handle their problems and make them focused about their targets