--- SOURCE: https://www.msajce-edu.in/principal.php ---
MSAJCE | Mohamed Sathak A. J. College of Engineering | B.E | B.Tech | M.E | Admissions | Best Top Engineering College In Chennai
Teachers & Engineers Day 2025 Celebration Photos New |
Internship Report Format - 2025 New |
Internship Report Format - 2025 - Download Here |
18th Graduation Day 22 Feb 2025 Photos New |
Admission 2026 - 2027 Flyer New |
AICTE-ATAL Sponsored Six Days FDP New |
17th Graduation Day Photos New |
Admission Open 2026-2027 - Online Application Form |
Grievance Cell - grievance@msajce-edu.in |
The Feedback Facility of Students and Faculty Available in the AICTE Web Portal New
Grievance and Redressal Committee
Dear Parents and Prospective Students
As Principal, I am impressed by the commitment of our management and the faculty for the provision of an excellent all-round education with state of the art facilities to our students so that they become multidimensional rather than uni-dimensional. Acquiring information is no longer the main focus of education; instead the main aim of education is to build the powers of human mind and spirit. MSAJCE believes in providing our students an environment which is rich in knowledge and supportive for their extra curricular interests. We evaluate our students on the basis of their physical, mental, social, emotional and intellectual development. As a result, I assure that, MSAJCE is dedicated to developing skilled and outstanding students who can pursue their interest and strength to the best of their ability. As a result our enriched students will be able to actively face Industry 4.0 challenges as well as build a strong society for a better world. To meet these needs, we practice a holistic approach with enabled new structure that stimulates the young minds in terms of innovative and creative thinking with great freedom to learn with different perceptiveness.
I welcome you all and wish a Memorable Studentship. I hope you will able to achieve greater heights and bring laurels our Institute.
Grievance and Redressal Committee
Mohamed Sathak AJ College of Engineering
AICTE Scholarship/Fellowship Schemes
© 2023 MSAJCE All Rights Reserved | 1635387 Visitors
## Dear Parents and Prospective Students
As Principal, I am impressed by the commitment of our management and the faculty for the provision of an excellent all-round education with state of the art facilities to our students so that they become multidimensional rather than uni-dimensional. Acquiring information is no longer the main focus of education; instead the main aim of education is to build the powers of human mind and spirit. MSAJCE believes in providing our students an environment which is rich in knowledge and supportive for their extra curricular interests. We evaluate our students on the basis of their physical, mental, social, emotional and intellectual development. As a result, I assure that, MSAJCE is dedicated to developing skilled and outstanding students who can pursue their interest and strength to the best of their ability. As a result our enriched students will be able to actively face Industry 4.0 challenges as well as build a strong society for a better world. To meet these needs, we practice a holistic approach with enabled new structure that stimulates the young minds in terms of innovative and creative thinking with great freedom to learn with different perceptiveness.
I welcome you all and wish a Memorable Studentship. I hope you will able to achieve greater heights and bring laurels our Institute.