--- SOURCE: https://www.msajce-edu.in/professionalsocities.php ---
MSAJCE | Mohamed Sathak A. J. College of Engineering | B.E | B.Tech | M.E | Admissions | Best Top Engineering College In Chennai
Teachers & Engineers Day 2025 Celebration Photos New |
Internship Report Format - 2025 New |
Internship Report Format - 2025 - Download Here |
18th Graduation Day 22 Feb 2025 Photos New |
Admission 2026 - 2027 Flyer New |
AICTE-ATAL Sponsored Six Days FDP New |
17th Graduation Day Photos New |
Admission Open 2026-2027 - Online Application Form |
Grievance Cell - grievance@msajce-edu.in |
The Feedback Facility of Students and Faculty Available in the AICTE Web Portal New
Grievance and Redressal Committee
The CSI Vision: "lT for Masses"
Keeping in mind the interest of the IT professionals & computer users CSI works towards making the
profession as area of choice amongst all sections of the society.
To fulfill this objective, the CSI regularly organizes
conferences, conventions, lectures, projects, awards. At the same time it also ensures that regular training and skill
updating are organized for the IT professionals. Education Directorate, CSI helps physically challenged citizens by providing
training 'Punarjani'. CSI also works towards a global approach, by seeking out alliances with organizations overseas who may
be willing to come forward and participate in such activities. CSI also helps governments in formulating IT strategy & planning
Tamil Nadu, Pondicherry, Andaman and Nicobar, Kerala, Lakshadweep.
Being closely associated with students, the Society has developed a well-established network across the country.
The activities conducted for the students associated with the Society include lecture meetings, seminars, conferences, training
programs, programming contests and industrial visits to installations. CSI has a strong Educational Directorate which undertakes
activities related to Certification of professionals related to the latest technologies. It's recent initiative of distance
education in the Business Domain areas offers technology enabled learning supported by personal counseling & expert advice.
In an ever changing environment, CSI offers professional counseling being a great need of the hour. It
close contact with its young members through various events, conferences, symposia to name a few.
Our College Received Best Supporting College award (SBC) from CSI Kancheepuram Chapter
Our faculty Mr. D. Weslin Received Active participant award (SBC) from CSI Kancheepuram Chapter
DETAILS OF NOMINATION AUTHORITY
NomineeProfessorDepartment of ECE
CSI Student Branch CounsellorAssociate ProfessorDepartment of IT
Information for CSI Inaugural Function: The Name Of the Workshop is CSI Inaugural Function. The Resource is Dr.Murugan,. The Person is President CSI. The Date is Kancheepuram Chapter Principal,Valliammai College of Engineering. The No. Of is 28.02.23. The Paticipants is 200. The Co-Ordinators is Mrs.Viswajaa.S, AP/IT Mr.Pandiyan.G, AP/CSE. 
Information for Guest Lecture-voice over IP: The Name Of the Workshop is Guest Lecture-voice over IP. The Resource is Mr.Anbazhagan A T Technical Lead,. The Person is Cognizant.. The Date is 22.03.23. The No. Of is 100. The Paticipants is Mrs.Gayathiri, AP/CSEMrs.Aiswarya M.S, AP/IT. The View is 3. 
Guest lecture-Digital Marketing
Mr. J. Mohammed Afroze Digital, CEO,
Mr. Rajasekar R, AP/CSE Mrs.Aysha Surfeen.M.A , AP/IT
Innovation & Invention in AI Technology
Ms.Anisha Udhayakumar AI Evangelist,
Mr.Vigneshwaran,TPO Mr.Hamer Shield.J M
Dr.M.Senthil Kumar, Secretary, CSI
Mrs.S.Kayalvizhi, Mrs.Bapitha Rani
Institute of Electrical and Electronics Engineers (IEEE)
The Institute of Electrical and Electronics Engineers ( IEEE ) is a United States of America based non-profit
organization and is the world's leading professional association for the advancement of technology. In this society many renowned
researchers, professors and scientist from worldwide have been affiliated with it through its global membership. The IEEE is a
leading authority on areas ranging from aerospace systems, electrical, electronics, computers, telecommunications, biomedical
engineering, electric power and consumer electronics among others.
The IEEE publishes technical literature / highly qualified
research articles in all the domains of electrical, computer science and electronics engineering and is a leading developer of
international standards that underpin many of today’s telecommunications, information technology and power generation products
IEEE student branch gives the opportunity to meet and learn from fellow students, as well as faculty members
and professionals in the field. The Student Branch activities offer numerous educational, technical, and professional advantages
of IEEE membership through special projects, activities, meetings, tours and field trips. The activities of the student branch are
Participation in regional conferences, workshops and competitions
Development of leadership, Interpersonal and team building skills
Scholarships and project/design programs and student paper contests
Establishment of a Student Branch Library with IEEE's publications
Access IEEE online services and resources & Establish a website
Organize various awareness programs to school students & Public
The Institution of Electronics and Telecommunication Engineers (IETE) is one of the leading Professional
Societies in India for Electronics and Communication Engineers. Our institution has established an IETE Students Forum in
16 /08/2017 -. Our student branches have -100
active members. This Forum organizes Guest lectures, Seminars,
Workshops, and conferences for the benefit of student members to exchange ideas and information on the topics of their interest
like curriculum, employment opportunities, higher educational opportunities, emerging trends, new developments etc. The student
members are also facilitated towards technical visits, practical training, and project work in R&D laboratories and Industries.
These activities encourage team work, event management and develop the spirit of self-reliance among the student members.
Our student members have also actively participated and won prizes in various technical events conducted by other institutions.
IETE student members have the privilege to attend IETE technical programs in India at reduced registration fees
Improving the standard of education
the students in the emerging area to meet the new opportunities
Encouraging outside-the-classroom studies / practical work / seminars etc
Better employment of the students on completion of their courses
Substantial increase of IETE membership and its nationwide distributions
Priority for publishing their papers in Journal of Education
Can also subscribe for other publications such as IETE Journal of Research and IETE. Technical Review (available online)
ISF students are welcome to attend IETE technical programs in India at reduced registration fees
ISF member will be issued with an Identity Card
Information for Signal: The Name of the Event is Signal. The Details of Resource Person is and Power Integrity in Semiconductor Industry. The Date of the Event is Mr.. The Target Audience is ZakirHussain, M.E. Analog Design Engineer, Microchip India PVT Ltd, Bangalore. The No. of Participants is 27-06-2020. 
Information for 65: The Name of the Event is 65. The Details of Resource Person is 2. The Date of the Event is Cyber. The Target Audience is Physical Systems and its Applications using LABVIEW. The No. of Participants is Mr. K.. 
Prakash , M.E.Application Engineer, Optithought
Cameraman, Entrepreneur by Profession, Public Speaker by Passion
- Dr.A.L. Vallikannu, Associate Professor, HITS, Chennai
Managing Director , ABE semiconductor
Software Architect in Caterpillar"
of Electronics Engineer in Various Domain
Convenor: Dr. E. Dhiravidachelvi
TECHNICAL & NON TECHNICAL CONNEXIONS
Convenor: Dr . E. Dhiravidachelvi
on Recent Trends in Optical Fibre Communication
Society of Automotive Engineers
Society of Automotive Engineers(SAE) is a U.S.-based, globally active professional association and standards
developing organization for engineering professionals in various industries. Principal emphasis is placed on global transport
industries such as aerospace, automotive, and commercial vehicles. Accordingly, the name SAE was established to reflect the broader
SAEINDIA is India's leading resource for mobility technology. As an individual member driven society of mobility practitioners the
ownership of SAEINDIA wrests with its members who are Individuals from the mobility community, which includes Engineers Executives
from Industry, Government Officials, Academics and Students .It is an affiliate society of SAE International registered in India as
an Indian nonprofit engineering and scientific society dedicated to the advancement of mobility industry in India. Student clubs of
SAE from various academic institution, make sure that they establish a link between the industry and the students.
SAE India with its four sections (Northern ,Eastern, Southern and Western) covering entire India, organizing various events for
the benefit of Engineering Student community
SAE INDIA BICYCLE DESIGN COMPETITION
ELECTRIC TWO WHEELER DESIGN COMPETITION
SAE INDIA TIFAN(TECHNOLOGY INNOVATION FORUM FOR AGRICULTURAL NURTURING)
Inaugurated the SAE-INDIA collegiate club associated with MSAJCE dated on21.02.2020
Conducted the SAE-INDIA Southern section TIER-II event dated on 21.02.2020
AE India - MSAJCE Collegiate Club Office Bearers
Information for Collegiate Club: The Type of Event is Collegiate Club. The Event is Inauguration of SAE Collegiate Club. The Title is 21.02.2020. The Date is 2. 
Student Convention Tier - II Events
SAEISS - Student Convention Tier - II Event 2020
The Indian Society of Heating, Refrigerating and Air Conditioning
The Indian Society of Heating, Refrigerating and Air Conditioning Engineers (ISHRAE), was founded in 1981 at
New Delhi by a group of eminent HVAC&R professionals.
ISHRAE operates from 41 Chapters and sub Chapters spread all over India,
with HQ in Delhi. ISHRAE works in the National interest with various Govt. Ministries/Departments, e.g. in the development of
Standards & drafting of NBC for BIS, working on ECBC with BEE, with Ozone cell of MoEFCC, on refrigerant gases. ISHRAE is a
member & active supporter of National Centre for Cold Chain development (NCCD). Ministry of Agriculture works closely with NCCD
on refrigeration. ISHRAE is also working in close co-operation with other similar Societies & organizations, both at national and
international level, for the promotion and development of issues like Sustainability, Green Buildings, Energy Efficiency,
Environmental Responsibility, Indoor Air Quality, Fire& Safety. ISHRAE is looked upon as a repository of technical knowledge in
the HVAC&R and Building Industry field by peer Organizations & the Govt. of India.
ISHRAE objectives includes, advancement of the Arts and Sciences of Heating, Ventilation, Air Conditioning and Refrigeration
Engineering and related services, Continuing education of members and other interested persons in the said sciences through Lectures,
Workshops, Product Presentations, Publications and Expositions, Rendition of career guidance and financial assistance to the students
of the above said sciences and encouragement of scientific research. As part of its objectives to promote the interests of the
HVAC&R industry, ISHRAE is involved in various activities. ISHRAE reaches out to all its members and seeks their active
participation & involvement in all the Events/Programs organizedby the society.
The activities of the student branch are listed as below
Provides excellent networking opportunities to interact with other Professionals, Industry Leaders and key decisions makers in the Profession and Industry
Provides an excellent forum for professional development and continuous training & Re-training on both fundamentals and latest products & technologies available worldwide
Easy access to all ISHRAE Technical Publications, Software, Workshops, Conferences and Training Programs
Opportunity to work in the Chapter Working Committee & Headquarter activities towards our mission to promote the arts and sciences of HVAC&R in India
Provides a platform for effective marketing and launching of new products and technologies through exhibitions, product presentations and advertisements
Provides an International exposure through International Associates
AICTE Scholarship/Fellowship Schemes
© 2023 MSAJCE All Rights Reserved | 1635387 Visitors
Name | Designation | Phone | E-Mail
Dr. K.S. SRINIVASAN | PrincipalMohamed Sathak AJ College of Engineering | 9150575066 | principal@msajce-edu.in
Dr. I. Manju | NomineeProfessorDepartment of ECE | 9949055026 | ece.manju@msajce-edu.in
Dr. D. Weslin | CSI Student Branch CounsellorAssociate ProfessorDepartment of IT | 9715202533 | it.weslin@msajce-edu.in
President | Yogesh R | IT | 2022-2026
Vice president | Saqlin Mustaq M | AI&DS | 2023-2027
Secretary | Abu Jabar Mubarak | CS&BS | 2022-2026
Joint Secretary | Hanuram PR | CSE | 2023-2027
Joint Secretary | Shivam Vishwakarma | CSE | 2023-2027
Treassurer | Navadharshan | CSCS | 2023-2027
Executive Member | Akram Bilal | AI&DS | 2022-2026
Executive Member | Zeenath Nisha | IT | 2023-2027