--- SOURCE: https://www.msajce-edu.in/research.php ---
MSAJCE | Mohamed Sathak A. J. College of Engineering | B.E | B.Tech | M.E | Admissions | Best Top Engineering College In Chennai
Teachers & Engineers Day 2025 Celebration Photos New |
Internship Report Format - 2025 New |
Internship Report Format - 2025 - Download Here |
18th Graduation Day 22 Feb 2025 Photos New |
Admission 2026 - 2027 Flyer New |
AICTE-ATAL Sponsored Six Days FDP New |
17th Graduation Day Photos New |
Admission Open 2026-2027 - Online Application Form |
Grievance Cell - grievance@msajce-edu.in |
The Feedback Facility of Students and Faculty Available in the AICTE Web Portal New
Grievance and Redressal Committee
The Research and Development Cell aims to nurture research culture in the College by promoting research
in newly emerging and challenging areas of Engineering, Technology, Science and Humanities
To encourage the students and faculty members to carry out research in the fields of Engineering, Technology,
Science and Humanities by providing necessary facilities and infrastructures required for carrying out research
To create zeal among the students and faculty towards research and innovation and to encourage them to publish
their findings in conferences and journals
To assist the students to apply funding for conducting research under student project scheme to various funding
agencies like TNSCST, MSME, IEI (I) etc
To work closely with the industry to understand their needs that eventually will result in new or improved products,
processes, systems or services that can increase the company's productivity and also promote Institute- Industry Collaboration
To support the government in serving the society by taking up sponsored projects offered by agencies such as TNSCST, DST,
AICTE, UGC, ISRO, DRDO, CSIR, DBT etc
To enhance the general research capability of budding engineers by way of participating in conferences, seminars,
workshops, project competition, etc.
To organize various workshops/ seminar/ trainings related to promotion of research
To encourage both students and faculty to apply copyrights and patents
Information for Dr.B.Janarthanan,: The Name is Dr.B.Janarthanan,. The Designation is Head-Research, MSAJCE, Chennai.. 
Dr.Srinivasan, Secretary TNSCST, Chennai.
044-22301428, ms.tanscst@nic.in
Dr.Parthiban, Asso.Prof/ Prod. NIT,
Dr. Somashekhar S Hiremath, Associate Professor, MSB 310, Manufacturing Engineering Section, Department of Mechanical Engineering, Indian Institute of Technology Madras, Chennai. https://iitm.irins.org/profile/61849#personal_information_panel
Dr.Sabitha Ramakrishnan, Professor, Dept of
9789977989, sabitha.ramakrishnan@gmail.com
Publications Faculty & Students
Information for Dr. E. Dhiravidachelvi: The Name is Dr. E. Dhiravidachelvi. The Title of the Patent is Design and implementation of a disaster management system using IoT and. The Patent Number is cloud computing techniques for a connected building to save lives with early warnings.. 
Information for 2: The Name is 2. The Title of the Patent is Dr. E. Dhiravidachelvi. The Patent Number is Mrs. E. Jayanthi. 
Vehicular Edge Computing Using A Smart Embedded System For Intelligent Transportation
Battery Swapping Smart Station for Future E-Vehicle Transportation
A Vehicle Tire Control System at curved roads using intelligent interfaces and support vector machines
Real time based IOT Enabled Smart Metering System.
Fundamentals of Electrical Measuring Instruments
Wireless sensor network for long- term environmental checking
for internet of things application
Deep learning based automatic eye cataract detection algorithm using MATLAB
Refrigerator with food warming apparatus attachment
A method and a device of Wireless Master Joystick Controller for Robotics
A Smart Device to Monitoring the Optic Cable and Inform the Users in Case of any Discrepancies
Machine Learning - based closed-loop mixture of concrete equipment and the method
Dedicated drone-based testing of building's strength located in a
https://Ipindiaservices.Gov.In/Patentsearch/Patentsearch/Viewapplicationstatus
Information for Dr. E. Dhiravidachelvi: The Name is Dr. E. Dhiravidachelvi. The Title of the Patent is Design and implementation of a disaster management system using IoT and. The Patent Number is cloud computing techniques for a connected building to save lives with early warnings.. 
Information for 2: The Name is 2. The Title of the Patent is Dr. E. Dhiravidachelvi. The Patent Number is Mrs. E. Jayanthi. 
Vehicular Edge Computing Using A Smart Embedded System For Intelligent Transportation
Battery Swapping Smart Station for Future E-Vehicle Transportation
A Vehicle Tire Control System at curved roads using intelligent interfaces and support vector machines
Real time based IOT Enabled Smart Metering System.
Fundamentals of Electrical Measuring Instruments
Wireless sensor network for long- term environmental checking
for internet of things application
Deep learning based automatic eye cataract detection algorithm using MATLAB
Refrigerator with food warming apparatus attachment
A method and a device of Wireless Master Joystick Controller for Robotics
A Smart Device to Monitoring the Optic Cable and Inform the Users in Case of any Discrepancies
Machine Learning - based closed-loop mixture of concrete equipment and the method
Dedicated drone-based testing of building's strength located in a
Computer implemented method of image classification with extreme learning machine
An AI & ML based system for building architecture & map designing
Real time crowd analysis using static video surveillance
Study on Mechanical Characterization of Graphene reinforced Aluminium Metal Matrix Composites
Friction stir welding of dissimilar aluminium alloys using tapered threaded tool profile
Type – 2 Diabetes detection and estimation from glucose levels by feature detection using machine learning algorithm
Dr.G Ramesh Mr.S Syed Abudhahir
Smart Painting Roller with Temperature Sensor to Detect the Temperature of Wall and Paint
Mrs. I.S.Suganthi Mrs.Priyadharshini
Design a Micro Strip Patch for Spectrum Utilization in Cognitive Radio Networks
ML Strategy for Performance Enhancement of Phase Change Material for a Smart Control Solar Application
https://Ipindiaservices.Gov.In/Patentsearch/Patentsearch/Viewapplicationstatus
Information for Dr. R. Senthilkumar: The Name is Dr. R. Senthilkumar. The Title of the Copy Right is G. Ramesh. The Copy Right Number is Engineering Practices Lab. 
Mr.Chintala Venkatesh Mrs. R. Abirami
Dr. R. Senthil KumarMr. P. SaravananMr. D. Sakthivel
Computer Aided Design - Course Manual
Dr. G. RameshMr. S.R. MohanMr. V. Vigneswara
Computer Aided Design And Manufacturing - Laboratory Manual
Dr. S. PrasathMr. A. Muhammed IfranMr. J. Rajesh
Meterology And Measurements - Laboratory Manual
Dr. R. Senthil KumarDr. S. Prasath Mr. J. Rajesh
Manufacturing Technology - Laboratory Manual
Dr. B. JanarthananMr. P. SaravananMr. S.R. Mohan
Computer Aided Simulation And Analysis - Laboratory Manual
Dr.R. Senthil KumarMr. P. SaravananMr. D. Sakthivel
Computer Aided Machine Drawing - Laboratory Manual
Dr. K.S. SrinivasanDr. I. ManjuMs. K. Gayathri
Dr. K. S. SrinivasanDr. I. Manju Mr. K. Vairaperumal
https://Copyright.Gov.In/Frmstatusgenuser.Aspx
Information for Dr. K.S. Srinivasan: The Name is Dr. K.S. Srinivasan. The Title of the Book / Chapters is Communication Theory. The ISBN / ISSN/ Number is 978-81-89638-43-6. 
Information for Dr. K.S. Srinivasan: The Name is Dr. K.S. Srinivasan. The Title of the Book / Chapters is Principles of Communication Engineering. The ISBN / ISSN/ Number is 978-81-87721-95-6. 
Information for Dr. K.S. Srinivasan: The Name is Dr. K.S. Srinivasan. The Title of the Book / Chapters is Electric Circuits and Electronic Devices. The ISBN / ISSN/ Number is 978-81-8472-085-3. 
Information for Dr. K.S. Srinivasan: The Name is Dr. K.S. Srinivasan. The Title of the Book / Chapters is Basic Electrical and Electronics Engineering. The ISBN / ISSN/ Number is 978-81-8472-086-0. 
Information for Dr. K.S. Srinivasan: The Name is Dr. K.S. Srinivasan. The Title of the Book / Chapters is Digital Communication. The ISBN / ISSN/ Number is 978-81-89638-19-1. 
Information for Dr. K.S. Srinivasan: The Name is Dr. K.S. Srinivasan. The Title of the Book / Chapters is Electronic Devices. The ISBN / ISSN/ Number is 978-81-8472-254-3. 
Information for Dr. K.S. Srinivasan: The Name is Dr. K.S. Srinivasan. The Title of the Book / Chapters is Electronic Devices and Circuits. The ISBN / ISSN/ Number is 978-81-8472-101-0. 
Information for Dr. K.S. Srinivasan: The Name is Dr. K.S. Srinivasan. The Title of the Book / Chapters is Electronic Circuits. The ISBN / ISSN/ Number is I. 
Electronics and Microprocessors
Electronics and Microprocessors
Electronic Devices and Circuits (As per the JNTU Syllabus)
Fundamentals of Electrical Measuring Instruments
Data Science for COVID -19 (Elsevier)
Applications of Big Data in Health Care
Monograph on Fundamentals of electrical measuring instruments
Impact of Lockdown for Research Scholars
Dr. I. ManjuDr. E. DhiravidachelviMrs. G. Premalatha
Digital Communication and Computer Networks
National Innovation and Start-up Policy (NISP)
To cater the needs of student entrepreneurs with innovative ideas there by introducing a culture of entrepreneurship inside campus which will strengthen our education system and there by promoting the national economic and social growth
ecosystem with required infrastructure that can enable students and faculty to
innovate and prototype their potential ideas with industrial standards and
support from Government, industry and reputed academic institutions around the
world and help them to realize their potentials.
help student groups to prototype their ideas.
improve innovation, creative and design thinking among student community.
facility for faculty driven start-up and student/Alumni start-up.
FDP, seminars and workshops, distinguish talks for students, Faculty and Alumni
and promote entrepreneurial culture.
institute industry interaction cell activity and effectively use the outcomes
Associate with DST, CII, MSME and other academic institutions for transferring world class facility for MSAJCE IEDC activities.
Improve quality of research work among students and to attain patent, which can be commercially used in production.
Provide a platform for students to develop innovative products with global recognition and generate business opportunities.
Generate revenues through consultancy work and student start-ups.
Spread awareness to students and faculty regarding IPR related activities.
Strategic partnership linkage with
Entrepreneurship Development Institute of India (EDII), Chennai.
National Innovation Foundation (NIF) of India to submit ideas and apply for schemes.
Procure fund from AICTE for Entrepreneurship Development Cell.
Information for Dr. K.S. Srinivasan Principal, Mohamed Sathak A.J. College of Engineering (MSAJCE), Chennai: The Name is Dr. K.S. Srinivasan Principal, Mohamed Sathak A.J. College of Engineering (MSAJCE), Chennai. The POSITION is President. 
Information for Mr. Prakadesh Subramanian Strategic Partner, SIIF, Chennai.: The Name is Mr. Prakadesh Subramanian Strategic Partner, SIIF, Chennai.. The POSITION is Incubation Coordinator. 
Information for Mr.Parvez Aalam CEO, Crescent Innovation Incubation Council, Chennai: The Name is Mr.Parvez Aalam CEO, Crescent Innovation Incubation Council, Chennai. The POSITION is Incubation Coordinator. 
Information for Mr.Thiyagaraja Gupta Deputy Controller of Patents and Designs: The Name is Mr.Thiyagaraja Gupta Deputy Controller of Patents and Designs. The POSITION is Patent Expert. 
Information for Ahamed Jamel AMT IT consultant, 4A technology: The Name is Ahamed Jamel AMT IT consultant, 4A technology. The POSITION is Alumni Entrepreneur. 
Information for Abdur Rahim Salih Director & CEO V5 Innovations Pvt,Ltd: The Name is Abdur Rahim Salih Director & CEO V5 Innovations Pvt,Ltd. The POSITION is Alumni Entrepreneur. 
Information for Asim Ali. L CMO, Customer Labs: The Name is Asim Ali. L CMO, Customer Labs. The POSITION is Alumni Entrepreneur. 
Information for To develop Strategies and governance for Promoting Innovation Entrepreneurship in the institute: The PLAN is To develop Strategies and governance for Promoting Innovation Entrepreneurship in the institute. 
Information for Creating Innovation Pipeline and Pathways for Entrepreneurs and Startups.: The PLAN is Creating Innovation Pipeline and Pathways for Entrepreneurs and Startups.. 
Information for Building Organizational Capacity, Human Resources and Incentive: The PLAN is Building Organizational Capacity, Human Resources and Incentive. 
Information for Collaboration, Co-creation, Business Relationship and knowledge Exchange: The PLAN is Collaboration, Co-creation, Business Relationship and knowledge Exchange. 
Information for Incubation & Pre-Incubation support at SIIF: The PLAN is Incubation & Pre-Incubation support at SIIF. 
Information for IP Ownership Rights for Technologies Developed at MSAJCE and SIIF.: The PLAN is IP Ownership Rights for Technologies Developed at MSAJCE and SIIF.. 
Information for Pedagogy & Learning Interventions for Supporting Innovations & Start-ups: The PLAN is Pedagogy & Learning Interventions for Supporting Innovations & Start-ups. 
Information for Entrepreneurial Performance Impact Assessment: The PLAN is Entrepreneurial Performance Impact Assessment. 
Key Performance Indicators (KPIs)
Increase in Self-Employment Rate
5 Established Start-ups per year
Establish the Environment with multiple level of support for innovation & Entrepreneurship and startups.
Students will choose Entrepreneurship as career
All the student & faculty with entrepreneurship Orientation
Student & faculty motivated to start any entrepreneurial activity
5 IPR/Innovations developed ideas/year
5 Student/Early-Stage Start-ups to be formed/year.
In-house Expert Capacity facility available for Advisory Services
25% of Student & faculty mass exposed to awareness/orientation building programs
Students covered through entrepreneurship Education; MOOC, Class Room, Experiential Learning programs etc.
250 of beneficiaries are accessing the infrastructure & facilities per day, month & Year
25% innovators identified; 25 of awarded,/recognized; 25 of Supported
5% Student projects turn to (commercialize) Innovations
5 of IPR based product/services generated and registration filed
In-house trained professional developed for advisory services
5 of Research Studies on Entrepreneurship published
2 of Regional, National and International linkages established for the start-up & innovation
5% Representatives of experts & entrepreneurial students across Dept. & Disciplines.
5 of Beneficiaries Referred to Incubators/investors for further support through Start-up Cell
10 of Beneficiaries generated under various schemes and programs leveraged and converged at Start-up Cell
5 Education/Skill certification program on Entrepreneurship, IIPR, Innovation etc.
25 of workshops, awareness, and market outreach events, orientation, advocacy meetings etc.
12 of networking event (Intra and Inter-institutional, enablers, stakeholders) organized
5 of skill and competency development training programs/FDPs/EDPs organized.
5 of research studies related to Entrepreneurship conducted
01 of national and regional award and campus Hackathon like events organized
Incentivizing Entrepreneurship and Innovation; services and facilities; Start-up Manual, policies, tool kits etc.
1% of total budget/year spend against total institution revenue for start-up
Budget allocation and Spend ratio for the start-up mandate in institute
Tentative plan for the next 5 years
One Day Workshop on “Entrepreneurship and Innovation as Career Opportunity”
One Day Workshop on Problem Solving/Design Thinking/Ideation Workshop/ Campus Hackathon etc
Field/Exposure Visit to Village/Society /School/Industry/Market – Identity real Life Problem
Special Talk on My Story - Entrepreneur’s Life & Crossroad – Motivational Speak - To be Share by Entrepreneurs
Product Development Phases - Story Telling - (Innovators in Campus)
National Conference/workshop on Start-up/Social Innovation & Entrepreneurship
Demo Day – Exhibition Cum Demo for PoCs & Mentorship Session for Innovators (or) Student Entrepreneurs
Internship at Innovation & Start-up Centre/Startups/Incubation Unit etc. during Semester Break
Field/Exposure Visit to Incubation Unit/Patent Facilitation Centre/Technology Transfer Centre
One Day Awareness/Mentoring Session on IPR & IP Management for Innovation and Start-ups
Field/Exposure Visit to Design Centre/Makers’ Space/Fab Lab/Prototype Lab/Tinkering Lab etc.
Seminar on Accelerator/Incubation - Opportunity for Student Faculty - Early-Stage Entrepreneurs
Seminar on Understanding Angel and Venture Capital Funding - What is there for Early-Stage Innovator & Entrepreneurs
Boot camp for Innovation product development
Workshop Funding Opportunities for Innovation and Entrepreneurship Development
Short Term Training course on Innovation /Start-up & Entrepreneurship
AICTE Scholarship/Fellowship Schemes
© 2023 MSAJCE All Rights Reserved | 1635387 Visitors
| To encourage the students and faculty members to carry out research in the fields of Engineering, Technology,
Science and Humanities by providing necessary facilities and infrastructures required for carrying out research
| To create zeal among the students and faculty towards research and innovation and to encourage them to publish
their findings in conferences and journals
| To assist the students to apply funding for conducting research under student project scheme to various funding
agencies like TNSCST, MSME, IEI (I) etc
| To work closely with the industry to understand their needs that eventually will result in new or improved products,
processes, systems or services that can increase the company's productivity and also promote Institute- Industry Collaboration
| To support the government in serving the society by taking up sponsored projects offered by agencies such as TNSCST, DST,
AICTE, UGC, ISRO, DRDO, CSIR, DBT etc
| To enhance the general research capability of budding engineers by way of participating in conferences, seminars,
workshops, project competition, etc.
| To organize various workshops/ seminar/ trainings related to promotion of research
| To encourage both students and faculty to apply copyrights and patents