--- SOURCE: https://www.msajce-edu.in/sh.php ---
MSAJCE | Mohamed Sathak A. J. College of Engineering | B.E | B.Tech | M.E | Admissions | Best Top Engineering College In Chennai
Teachers & Engineers Day 2025 Celebration Photos New |
Internship Report Format - 2025 New |
Internship Report Format - 2025 - Download Here |
18th Graduation Day 22 Feb 2025 Photos New |
Admission 2026 - 2027 Flyer New |
AICTE-ATAL Sponsored Six Days FDP New |
17th Graduation Day Photos New |
Admission Open 2026-2027 - Online Application Form |
Grievance Cell - grievance@msajce-edu.in |
The Feedback Facility of Students and Faculty Available in the AICTE Web Portal New
Grievance and Redressal Committee
Department of Science and Humanities
The department of S&H was started in the year 2000. This department lays the base for furthering into one’s
engineering career. Well experienced faculty with four doctorates contribute much in developing and moulding the students in
enhancing their knowledge to comprehend the basic subjects for better exposure. Students are guided through with innovative
teaching methods to make learning enjoyable. The laboratories available are well equipped to put into practice what the students
have learnt in theory classes. In addition to Literary and Debating Club activity, students are also exposed to various activities
like NSS, YRC, Physical Education and Yoga to enable themselves face life with confidence and societal responsibility.
The department holds the responsibility in making student – teacher and parent – teacher interaction possible.
This department on the whole make students elevated to face with optimistic approach the next level in their career.
To be a centre of excellence for transforming students into proficient engineers through sustainable problems.
M1. Impart fundamental knowledge and necessary skills in Science & Humanities through innovative teaching and learning methodology
M2. Inculcate critical thinking, ethics, lifelong learning and creativity needed for Industry and Society
M3. Cultivate the students with all-round competencies, for career, higher education and self Employability
4 years (Regular) / 3 years (Lateral Entry)
8 (Regular) / 6 (Lateral Entry)
Total - 120 (Government - 60, Management - 60)
10+2 system of Education. Must have secured a pass in Physics, Chemistry and Mathematics in the qualifying examination. For more information
Planners, Designers, Constructors & Operators | Stewards of the Environment | Innovators & Integrators of Technology
Public Sector Undertaking | Government Sector
Programme Educational Objectives (PEOs)
Graduates will be prepared for designing mechanical components and systems, with creativity and sustainability
Graduates will be skilled in the use of modern tools for critical problem solving and analyzing industrial and societal requirements
Graduates will be prepared with managerial and leadership skills for career and starting up own firms
Program Specific Outcomes (PSOs)
Engineering Graduates will be able to
Apply the acquired knowledge in mechanical engineering to solve industrial problems using modern tools
Develop cost effective and eco-friendly mechanical components and systems needed for the industry and society
Engineering Graduates will be able to
Engineering knowledge: Apply the knowledge of mathematics, science, engineering fundamentals, and specialisation in Mechanical Engineering for the solution of complex engineering problems
Problem analysis: Identify, formulate, research literature, and analyse complex engineering problems reaching substantiated conclusions using first principles of mathematics, natural sciences, and engineering sciences
Design/development of solutions: Design solutions for complex engineering problems and design system components or processes that meet the specified needs with appropriate consideration for public health and safety, and cultural, societal, and environmental considerations
Conduct investigation of complex problem: Use research-based knowledge and research methods including design of experiments, analysis and interpretation of data, and synthesis of the information to provide valid conclusions
Modern tool usage: Create, select, and apply appropriate techniques, resources, and modern engineering and IT tools, including prediction and modelling to complex engineering activities, with an understanding of the limitations
The engineer and society: Apply reasoning informed by the contextual knowledge to assess societal, health, safety, legal, and cultural issues and the consequent responsibilities relevant to the professional engineering practice
Environment and sustainability:
Understand the impact of the professional engineering solutions in societal and environmental contexts, and demonstrate the knowledge of, and need for sustainable development
Ethics: Apply ethical principles and commit to professional ethics and responsibilities and norms of the engineering practice
Individual and team work: Function effectively as an individual, and as a member or leader in diverse teams, and in multidisciplinary settings
Communication: Communicate effectively on complex engineering activities with the engineering community and with the society at large, such as, being able to comprehend and write effective reports and design documentation, make effective presentations, and give and receive clear instructions
Project Management and Finance: Demonstrate knowledge and understanding of theengineering and management principles and apply these to one’s own work, as a member and leader in a team, to manage projects and in multidisciplinary environment.
Life-long learning: Recognise the need for, and have the preparation and ability to engage in independent and life-long learning in the broadest context of technological change
4 years (Regular) / 3 years (Lateral Entry)
8 (Regular) / 6 (Lateral Entry)
Total - 120 (Government - 60, Management - 60)
10+2 system of Education. Must have secured a pass in Physics, Chemistry and Mathematics in the qualifying examination. For more information
Planners, Designers, Constructors & Operators | Stewards of the Environment | Innovators & Integrators of Technology
Public Sector Undertaking | Government Sector
Information for Dr. AMMU QUDSIYA A: The S.No. is Dr. AMMU QUDSIYA A. The Name is Associate Professor. The Designation is 22.12.2022. The Date of Joining is Ph.D.. The Qualification is Regular. 
Information for Mrs. SENTHIL LAKSHMI: The S.No. is Mrs. SENTHIL LAKSHMI. The Name is Assistant Professor. The Designation is 24.06.2019. The Date of Joining is M.Phil.. The Qualification is Regular. 
Information for Dr. KAVITHA J: The S.No. is Dr. KAVITHA J. The Name is Assistant Professor. The Designation is 24.07.2023. The Date of Joining is Ph.D.. The Qualification is Regular. 
Information for Mrs. SALMA BANU: The S.No. is Mrs. SALMA BANU. The Name is Assistant Professor. The Designation is 28.11.2022. The Date of Joining is M.Phil.. The Qualification is Regular. 
Information for Mrs. RAJESHWARI S: The S.No. is Mrs. RAJESHWARI S. The Name is Assistant Professor. The Designation is 21.07.2023. The Date of Joining is M.Phil.. The Qualification is Regular. 
Information for Dr. BALAKRISHNAN A: The S.No. is Dr. BALAKRISHNAN A. The Name is Associate Professor. The Designation is 15.07.2013. The Date of Joining is Ph.D.. The Qualification is Regular. 
Information for Mrs. JANANI K: The S.No. is Mrs. JANANI K. The Name is Assistant Professor. The Designation is 29.08.2022. The Date of Joining is M.Phil.. The Qualification is Regular. 
Information for Dr. RAMYA B: The S.No. is Dr. RAMYA B. The Name is Assistant Professor. The Designation is 03.08.2023. The Date of Joining is Ph.D.. The Qualification is Regular. 
Information for Mrs. SHOBANA V: The S.No. is Mrs. SHOBANA V. The Name is Assistant Professor. The Designation is 11.10.2019. The Date of Joining is M.Phil.. The Qualification is Regular. 
Information for Dr.: The S.No. is Dr.. The Name is AMUDHA S. The Designation is Assistant Professor. The Date of Joining is 22.05.2023. The Qualification is Ph.D.. 
Information for Dr. AMMU QUDSIYA A: The S.No. is Dr. AMMU QUDSIYA A. The Name is Associate Professor. The Designation is 22.12.2022. The Date of Joining is Ph.D.. The Qualification is Regular. 
Information for Mrs. SUDHA S: The S.No. is Mrs. SUDHA S. The Name is Assistant Professor. The Designation is 24.06.2019. The Date of Joining is M.Phil.. The Qualification is Regular. 
Information for Dr. KAVITHA J: The S.No. is Dr. KAVITHA J. The Name is Assistant Professor. The Designation is 24.07.2023. The Date of Joining is Ph.D.. The Qualification is Regular. 
Information for Mrs. RAJESHWARI S: The S.No. is Mrs. RAJESHWARI S. The Name is Assistant Professor. The Designation is 21.07.2023. The Date of Joining is M.Phil.. The Qualification is Regular. 
Information for Dr. BALAKRISHNAN A: The S.No. is Dr. BALAKRISHNAN A. The Name is Associate Professor. The Designation is 15.07.2013. The Date of Joining is Ph.D.. The Qualification is Regular. 
Information for Mrs. NITHYA A: The S.No. is Mrs. NITHYA A. The Name is Assistant Professor. The Designation is 03.08.2023. The Date of Joining is M.Phil.. The Qualification is Regular. 
Information for Dr. SUVITHA A: The S.No. is Dr. SUVITHA A. The Name is Professor. The Designation is 05.08.2020. The Date of Joining is Ph.D.. The Qualification is Regular. 
Information for Mrs. SHOBANA V: The S.No. is Mrs. SHOBANA V. The Name is Assistant Professor. The Designation is 11.10.2019. The Date of Joining is M.Phil.. The Qualification is Regular. 
Information for Dr.: The S.No. is Dr.. The Name is AMUDHA S. The Designation is Assistant Professor. The Date of Joining is 22.05.2023. The Qualification is Ph.D.. The Profile is Regular. 
Information for Dr. RESHMI K V: The S.No. is Dr. RESHMI K V. The Name is Assistant Professor. The Designation is 29.08.2022. The Date of Joining is M.Phil.. The Qualification is Regular. 
Information for Mrs. BARVEEN FATHIMA M: The S.No. is Mrs. BARVEEN FATHIMA M. The Name is Assistant Professor. The Designation is 01.03.2022. The Date of Joining is M.Phil.. The Qualification is Regular. 
Information for Mrs. USHA S: The S.No. is Mrs. USHA S. The Name is Assistant Professor. The Designation is 17.07.2019. The Date of Joining is M.Phil.. The Qualification is Regular. 
Information for Mrs. SAIPRIYA K: The S.No. is Mrs. SAIPRIYA K. The Name is Assistant Professor. The Designation is 27.06.2016. The Date of Joining is M.Phil.. The Qualification is Regular. 
Information for Dr. AMMU QUDSIYA A: The S.No. is Dr. AMMU QUDSIYA A. The Name is Associate Professor. The Designation is 22.12.2022. The Date of Joining is Ph.D.. The Qualification is Regular. 
Information for Mrs. SATHYA N: The S.No. is Mrs. SATHYA N. The Name is Assistant Professor. The Designation is 02.11.2022. The Date of Joining is M.Phil.. The Qualification is Regular. 
Information for Mrs. VIMALA D: The S.No. is Mrs. VIMALA D. The Name is Assistant Professor. The Designation is 06.10.2022. The Date of Joining is M.Phil.. The Qualification is Regular. 
Information for Dr. SUBRAMANIAN S: The S.No. is Dr. SUBRAMANIAN S. The Name is Assistant Professor. The Designation is 28.08.2022. The Date of Joining is Ph.D.. The Qualification is Regular. 
Information for Dr. RAJAKUMAR S: The S.No. is Dr. RAJAKUMAR S. The Name is Professor. The Designation is 29.05.2021. The Date of Joining is Ph.D.. The Qualification is Regular. 
Information for Mr.: The S.No. is Mr.. The Name is RAMAMOORTHY K. The Designation is Assistant Professor. The Date of Joining is 21.11.2020. The Qualification is M.Phil.. The Profile is Regular. 
Information for Mrs. BARVEEN FATHIMA M: The S.No. is Mrs. BARVEEN FATHIMA M. The Name is Assistant Professor. The Designation is 01.03.2022. The Date of Joining is M.Phil.. The Qualification is Regular. 
Information for Mrs. USHA S: The S.No. is Mrs. USHA S. The Name is Assistant Professor. The Designation is 17.07.2019. The Date of Joining is M.Phil.. The Qualification is Regular. 
Information for Mrs. SAIPRIYA K: The S.No. is Mrs. SAIPRIYA K. The Name is Assistant Professor. The Designation is 27.06.2016. The Date of Joining is M.Phil.. The Qualification is Regular. 
Information for Dr. SIVAKAMI SUNDARI M: The S.No. is Dr. SIVAKAMI SUNDARI M. The Name is Assistant Professor. The Designation is 28.2.2022. The Date of Joining is Ph.D.. The Qualification is Regular. 
Information for Dr. RAJAKUMAR S: The S.No. is Dr. RAJAKUMAR S. The Name is Professor. The Designation is 29.05.2021. The Date of Joining is Ph.D.. The Qualification is Regular. 
Information for Mrs. ZULAIHA MARYAM M: The S.No. is Mrs. ZULAIHA MARYAM M. The Name is Assistant Professor. The Designation is 13.10.2018. The Date of Joining is M.Phil.. The Qualification is Regular. 
Information for Mr.: The S.No. is Mr.. The Name is RAMAMOORTHY K. The Designation is Assistant Professor. The Date of Joining is 21.11.2020. The Qualification is M.Phil.. The Profile is Regular. 
Information for Mrs. USHA S: The S.No. is Mrs. USHA S. The Name is Assistant Professor. The Designation is 17.07.2019. The Date of Joining is M.Phil.. The Qualification is Regular. 
Information for Mrs. SAIPRIYA K: The S.No. is Mrs. SAIPRIYA K. The Name is Assistant Professor. The Designation is 27.06.2016. The Date of Joining is M.Phil.. The Qualification is Regular. 
Information for Mrs. ZULAIHA MARYAM M: The S.No. is Mrs. ZULAIHA MARYAM M. The Name is Assistant Professor. The Designation is 13.10.2018. The Date of Joining is M.Phil.. The Qualification is Regular. 
Information for Mr.: The S.No. is Mr.. The Name is RAMAMOORTHY K. The Designation is Assistant Professor. The Date of Joining is 21.11.2020. The Qualification is M.Phil.. The Profile is Regular. 
Information for Physics & Chemistry Lab: The S.No. is Physics & Chemistry Lab. The Facility Available is BS8161. The Courses_Offered is - Physics & Chemistry. 
Information for HS3151: The S.No. is HS3151. The Subject Code is Professional English - I. The Lecture Notes is 2. The ICT Tools is PH3151. 
PROBLEM SOLVING AND PYTHON PROGRAMMING
Physics for Electronics Engineering
HANDLED FOR SERVICE DEPARTMENTS
AND PARTIAL DIFFERENTIAL EQUATIONS
Probability and Complex Function
Off Campus Placed Students in Various Company
List of Events Conducted Details
8 Days National Level FDP 29 Jan to 06 Feb 2024 at 2.00 to 3.00 PM
5 Days Online FDP 14 to 18 Aug 2023 at 2.00 to 3.00 PM
AICTE Scholarship/Fellowship Schemes
© 2023 MSAJCE All Rights Reserved | 1635387 Visitors
PEO1. | Graduates will be prepared for designing mechanical components and systems, with creativity and sustainability
PEO2. | Graduates will be skilled in the use of modern tools for critical problem solving and analyzing industrial and societal requirements
PEO3. | Graduates will be prepared with managerial and leadership skills for career and starting up own firms
PSO1. | Apply the acquired knowledge in mechanical engineering to solve industrial problems using modern tools
PSO2. | Develop cost effective and eco-friendly mechanical components and systems needed for the industry and society
PO1. | Engineering knowledge: Apply the knowledge of mathematics, science, engineering fundamentals, and specialisation in Mechanical Engineering for the solution of complex engineering problems
PO2. | Problem analysis: Identify, formulate, research literature, and analyse complex engineering problems reaching substantiated conclusions using first principles of mathematics, natural sciences, and engineering sciences
PO3. | Design/development of solutions: Design solutions for complex engineering problems and design system components or processes that meet the specified needs with appropriate consideration for public health and safety, and cultural, societal, and environmental considerations
PO4. | Conduct investigation of complex problem: Use research-based knowledge and research methods including design of experiments, analysis and interpretation of data, and synthesis of the information to provide valid conclusions
PO5. | Modern tool usage: Create, select, and apply appropriate techniques, resources, and modern engineering and IT tools, including prediction and modelling to complex engineering activities, with an understanding of the limitations
PO6. | The engineer and society: Apply reasoning informed by the contextual knowledge to assess societal, health, safety, legal, and cultural issues and the consequent responsibilities relevant to the professional engineering practice
PO7. | Environment and sustainability: Understand the impact of the professional engineering solutions in societal and environmental contexts, and demonstrate the knowledge of, and need for sustainable development
PO8. | Ethics: Apply ethical principles and commit to professional ethics and responsibilities and norms of the engineering practice
PO9. | Individual and team work: Function effectively as an individual, and as a member or leader in diverse teams, and in multidisciplinary settings
PO10. | Communication: Communicate effectively on complex engineering activities with the engineering community and with the society at large, such as, being able to comprehend and write effective reports and design documentation, make effective presentations, and give and receive clear instructions
PO11. | Project Management and Finance: Demonstrate knowledge and understanding of theengineering and management principles and apply these to one’s own work, as a member and leader in a team, to manage projects and in multidisciplinary environment.
PO12. | Life-long learning: Recognise the need for, and have the preparation and ability to engage in independent and life-long learning in the broadest context of technological change