--- SOURCE: https://www.msajce-edu.in/socialservices.php ---
MSAJCE | Mohamed Sathak A. J. College of Engineering | B.E | B.Tech | M.E | Admissions | Best Top Engineering College In Chennai
Teachers & Engineers Day 2025 Celebration Photos New |
Internship Report Format - 2025 New |
Internship Report Format - 2025 - Download Here |
18th Graduation Day 22 Feb 2025 Photos New |
Admission 2026 - 2027 Flyer New |
AICTE-ATAL Sponsored Six Days FDP New |
17th Graduation Day Photos New |
Admission Open 2026-2027 - Online Application Form |
Grievance Cell - grievance@msajce-edu.in |
The Feedback Facility of Students and Faculty Available in the AICTE Web Portal New
Grievance and Redressal Committee
NSS / YRC / Unnat Bharat Abiyan
NSS / NCC / Unnat Bharat Abiyan
With the goal to uphold the need of selfless service and to encourage the spirit of social service to
"Serve the downtrodden in the society" and "Personality Development through Community Service" among the young students,
Mohamed Sathak AJ College of Engineering (MSAJCE), Chennai, established National Service Scheme (NSS) at institute level in the year 2001.
Presently, NSS unit of MSAJCE has over 100 active members from various disciplines of 1st year and 2nd year,
working rigorously for the betterment of society in and around Chennai.
Our NSS unit has carried out blood donation camps, Awareness programmes on 'Health and Hygiene',
Consumer Rights, Environmental Protection, AIDS awareness programme etc.
To enhance the knowledge of themselves and the community
To apply their study to practical use in justifying at least some of the difficulties
To gain skill in the exercise of democratic leadership
To gain skills in program development to enable them for self-employment
To bridge the gap between the educated and the uneducated masses
To promote the will to serve the weaker section of the community
To establish relationship with the society
To Identify needs, problems and resources of the community and relate his learning
experience towards finding solutions to the problems indentified
Record the activities systematically and assess the progress periodically
Code of Conduct for NSS Volunteers
All volunteers should work under the guidance of a group leader nominated by the program officer
All volunteers should make themselves worthy of the confidence and cooperation of the group / community leadership
scrupulously avoid entering into any controversial issues
should keep day-to-day record of their activities / experience
an obligatory on the part of every volunteer to wear the NSS BADGE while on work
Following events organized during various national importance day
Independence Day & Republic Day
Orientation and Inauguration of Regular activities
Blood Donation Camps, Eye Check up and Dental Camps
Motivation Program for school students
Voters / Election Awareness camp
Information for Tobacco Awareness Rally: The Name of the Activity is Tobacco Awareness Rally. The Date is 26.06.2023. 
Information for Eye Screening Camp: The Name of the Activity is Eye Screening Camp. The Date is 26.06.2023. 
Information for International Yoga Day: The Name of the Activity is International Yoga Day. The Date is 21.06.2023. 
Information for Motivational Speech: The Name of the Activity is Motivational Speech. The Date is 09.06.2023. 
Information for Cancer Awareness Rally: The Name of the Activity is Cancer Awareness Rally. The Date is 31.05.2023. 
Information for Blood Donation Camp: The Name of the Activity is Blood Donation Camp. The Date is 17.05.2023. 
Information for Kavalan SOS App Awareness Program: The Name of the Activity is Kavalan SOS App Awareness Program. The Date is 20.04.2023. 
Information for Financial Education Program of NCFE: The Name of the Activity is Financial Education Program of NCFE. The Date is 16.03.2023. 
Information for Drug Awareness Program for School Students: The Name of the Activity is Drug Awareness Program for School Students. The Date is 10.2.2023. 
Information for Voters Day Awareness Program: The Name of the Activity is Voters Day Awareness Program. The Date is 25.01.2023. 
Information for Dental Health Awareness Camp: The Name of the Activity is Dental Health Awareness Camp. The Date is 11.01.2023. 
Information for Driving License Awareness Camp: The Name of the Activity is Driving License Awareness Camp. The Date is 12.12.2022 & 13.12.2022. 
The Youth Red Cross is one of the important constituent of its mother organization, Indian Red Cross. It is a group movement organized for students to inculcate social welfare in students and to prepare young minds to render a significant contribution for the needy people with the principles of Humanity, Impartiality, Neutrality, and Voluntary service. YRC at MSAJCE established in the year 2014
has around 100 active members, all are trained and encouraged to manage the affairs of the group, electing their own office bearers to work with deep involvement
conduct social and health awareness programmes
Awareness on the care of their own health and that of others
To encourage the students to extend their humanitarian services to the society
To offer First Aid Training to all the YRC volunteers
To enable the growth and development of a spirit of service and sense of duty with dedication and devotion in the minds of youth
To foster better friendly relationship with all without any discrimination
As foreseen by Gandhi Ji in his seminal work, ‘Hind Swaraj’, the western developmental paradigm,
based on centralized technologies and urbanization, has given rise to serious problems like increasing inequity
(leading to crime and violence), and climate change due to rapid ecological degradation. To ameliorate these problems,
it is necessary to promote development of rural areas in tune with Gandhian vision of self-sufficient ‘village republics’,
based on local resources and using decentralized, eco-friendly technologies so that the basic needs of food, clothing,
shelter, sanitation, health care, energy, livelihood, transportation, and education are locally met. There are huge developmental
disconnects between the rural and urban. Increasing urbanization is neither sustainable nor desirable. Unnat Bharat Abhiyan is
inspired by the vision of transformational change in rural development processes by leveraging knowledge institutions to help
build the architecture of an Inclusive India. Their mission is conceptualised as a movement to enable processes that connect
institutes of higher education with local communities to address the development challenges of rural India through participatory
processes and appropriate technologies for accelerating sustainable growth.
Information for 13.05.2022: The S.No. is 13.05.2022. The Date is Blood donation Camp. The Name of the event is Right Hospitals, Royapet.. The Beneficiary is 2. 
MSAJCE Staff members, students, Siruseri and Thalambur village people.
MSAJCE Staff members,students, Siruseri and Thalambur village people.
Plastic Free School Campus Cleaning camp
Govt.Hr.Sec.School, Thiruporur.
Sexuals Harassment Awareness Programme
Govt.Hr.Sec.School students, Thiruporur.
Sexuals Harassment Awareness Programme
Govt.Hr.Sec.School students, Kelampakam.
Govt.Hr.School students, Kelampakkam.
Govt.Hr.School students, Kovalam.
Mohamed Sathak A J College of Nursing, Siruseri.
Drive against Drug-Awareness Rally
Thalambur and Siruseri village people.
Plastic Free School Campus Cleaning Camp.
Govt.Middle.School, Nookampalayam.
Fire Safety Awareness Programme
MSAJCE Staffs, students, siruseri and thalambur village people.
Information for 20.05.2021: The S.No. is 20.05.2021. The Date is COVID VACCINATION CAMP – PHASE 2. The Name of the event is Thazhambur Village people. The Beneficiary is 2. 
COVID VACCINATION CAMP – PHASE 1
Egattur, Kaaranai, Navalur and Siruseri Village People
VOLUNTEERING DUTY FOR TAMILNADU ASSEMBLY ELECTION 2021
Thazhambur and kaaranai Village People
Thazhambur and Siruseri Village people
School students from various places from Chennai
Information for 05.06.2019: The S.No. is 05.06.2019. The Date is WORLD ENVIRONMENTAL DAY COMPETITION. The Name of the event is Government higher secondary school, Thaiyur, Chengalpet Dist.. The Beneficiary is 2. 
TREE PLANTATION IN KAARANAI VILLEGE
Awareness among the students from various department
Create awareness among students on individual and social responsibility
Benefits of students to make them understand the importance of dental care
Siruseri Village people and our students
To make students realize the value of trees
Neighborhood of Besant Nagar Beach
MASS CLEANING PROGRAMME - SIRUSERI CIPCOT
People working in different MNC’s and other companies located in SIPCOT
Students of Government Hr Sec School, Sholinganallur
Mohamed Sathak Nursing and Engineering college students
Information for 18.10.2018: The S.No. is 18.10.2018. The Date is SCHOOL CLEANING PROGRAMME. The Name of the event is School students of Government middle school, Egattur. The Beneficiary is 2. 
GAJA CYCLONE RELIEF MATERIAL DISTRIBUTION
Thiruvarur, Nagapattinam and Cuddalore village people
General public in and around sholinganallur
TEACHING COMPUTER SKILLS TO THE SCHOOL STUDENTS
School students of Government higher secondary school, Sholinganallur
CLEANING HIOSTORICAL PLACE MAHABALIPURAM
General public of Mahabalipuram
Information for 12.10.2017: The S.No. is 12.10.2017. The Date is BLIND WALK. The Name of the event is Siruseri Village People. The Beneficiary is 2. 
EDUCATING RURAL CHILD-(PROVIDING FOOD FOR POOR PEOPLE)
Thirukazhukundram and kadalur village school students
BIRIYANI BUCKET CHALLENGE-(PROVIDING FOOD FOR POOR PEOPLE)
Poor people in and around Adyar, Marina Beach, Velacherry, Pattinambakkam, Thambaram
EDUCATION AWARNESS FOR POOR CHILDREN - OMR RUN
Fishermen family near Marina Beach
Fishermen family of blue beach, Neelankarai
People in and around Mathyakailash to Sholinganallur
Information for 17.02.2017: The S.No. is 17.02.2017. The Date is MEDICAL CAMP AT THALAMPUR. The Name of the event is Thazhambur Village people. The Beneficiary is 2. 
TERRY FOX - CANCER AWARNESS RALLY
AICTE Scholarship/Fellowship Schemes
© 2023 MSAJCE All Rights Reserved | 1635387 Visitors
| To work for /among the people
| To enhance the knowledge of themselves and the community
| To apply their study to practical use in justifying at least some of the difficulties
| To gain skill in the exercise of democratic leadership
| To gain skills in program development to enable them for self-employment
| To bridge the gap between the educated and the uneducated masses
| To promote the will to serve the weaker section of the community
| To establish relationship with the society
| To Identify needs, problems and resources of the community and relate his learning
experience towards finding solutions to the problems indentified
| Plan programs and execute them
| Record the activities systematically and assess the progress periodically
| All volunteers should work under the guidance of a group leader nominated by the program officer
| All volunteers should make themselves worthy of the confidence and cooperation of the group / community leadership
| Volunteers should scrupulously avoid entering into any controversial issues
| Volunteers should keep day-to-day record of their activities / experience
| Its an obligatory on the part of every volunteer to wear the NSS BADGE while on work
| National Youth Day | | Independence Day & Republic Day
| Road Safety Week | | Orphanage visit
| Polio drops programmes | | Annual Special Camp
| Swatch Bharath Programmes | | Orientation and Inauguration of Regular activities
| Blood Donation Camps, Eye Check up and Dental Camps | | Tree Plantation Programs
| Motivation Program for school students | | Voters / Election Awareness camp