--- SOURCE: https://www.msajce-edu.in/technologycentre.php ---
MSAJCE | Mohamed Sathak A. J. College of Engineering | B.E | B.Tech | M.E | Admissions | Best Top Engineering College In Chennai
Teachers & Engineers Day 2025 Celebration Photos New |
Internship Report Format - 2025 New |
Internship Report Format - 2025 - Download Here |
18th Graduation Day 22 Feb 2025 Photos New |
Admission 2026 - 2027 Flyer New |
AICTE-ATAL Sponsored Six Days FDP New |
17th Graduation Day Photos New |
Admission Open 2026-2027 - Online Application Form |
Grievance Cell - grievance@msajce-edu.in |
The Feedback Facility of Students and Faculty Available in the AICTE Web Portal New
Grievance and Redressal Committee
In pursuit of MSAJCE vision and mission to make the students deployable and equip them with the
upcoming emerging industrial demands, various Technology Centres to educate, train and up-skill students in niche
technologies established in the year 2019-2020. The courses and training are designed based on the recommendations
of AICTE and India Skill Report 2020. The Technology Centers established with state of art facility, provide an ambient
learning environment for research and innovation. Each centre is collaborated with industry / government organizations
to provide certifications, onsite / offsite projects and internships. The list of industries include Automation Anywhere,
Godrej Inc, Ford, Palo Alto systems, Amazon Web Services, National Instruments, CISCO Academy, Altair, Open wave computing,
Levergent Technologies, Propeller Technologies etc.
Technology / Skill Development Centre
Information for Centre for: The Name of the Centre is Centre for. The Details is 3d Printing and Additive Manufacturing. 
Centre for NDT- Non Destructive Testing
Centre for Building Information Modelling
Information for Centre for Embedded & IOT: The Name of the Centre is Centre for Embedded & IOT. 
Information for Centre for UAV / Drone Technology: The Name of the Centre is Centre for UAV / Drone Technology. 
Information for Centre for Godrej Disha Skill Development Centre: The Name of the Centre is Centre for Godrej Disha Skill Development Centre. 
Information for Centre for Bosch Industry Institute Collaboration: The Name of the Centre is Centre for Bosch Industry Institute Collaboration. 
Information for Centre for E-Mobility: The Name of the Centre is Centre for E-Mobility. 
Information for Centre for Renewable Energy: The Name of the Centre is Centre for Renewable Energy. 
Information for Centre for APJ Abdul Kalam Innovation Centre: The Name of the Centre is Centre for APJ Abdul Kalam Innovation Centre. 
Information for Centre for Bot Lab & Robotics Process Automation: The Name of the Centre is Centre for Bot Lab & Robotics Process Automation. 
Information for Centre for Cisco Networking Academy: The Name of the Centre is Centre for Cisco Networking Academy. 
Information for Centre for Code Tantra - Coding Learning Centre: The Name of the Centre is Centre for Code Tantra - Coding Learning Centre. 
Information for Centre for GAMING AND AR/VR: The Name of the Centre is Centre for GAMING AND AR/VR. 
Information for Centre for Artificial Intelligence and Machine Learning Centre: The Name of the Centre is Centre for Artificial Intelligence and Machine Learning Centre. 
Information for Centre for Block Chain Technology: The Name of the Centre is Centre for Block Chain Technology. 
Information for Centre for Mobile and Web Application Development: The Name of the Centre is Centre for Mobile and Web Application Development. 
AICTE Scholarship/Fellowship Schemes
© 2023 MSAJCE All Rights Reserved | 1635387 Visitors