Management Home Management Mohamed Sathak Trust Mohamed Sathak Trust, a charitable and educational organization, was established on 26 October 1973 at Kilakarai, by the Philanthropic Mohamed Sathak Family of Kilakarai, Ramanathapuram District, Tamil Nadu, with the sole purpose of helping deprived people from rural and financially challenged background to obtain quality education. The first self-financing engineering college in the country was established by the Trust in 1984 at Kilakarai, and from that day onwards the Trust has been contributing to provide quality education with academic excellence to meet the requirements of industries at national and international levels. The trust has an impeccable track record of running quality educational institutions from higher secondary level to the under graduate and post graduate levels in various disciplines such as Engineering Technology, Arts and Science, Pharmacy, Physiotherapy, Nursing and Medical Sciences; It has 18 educational institutions at present in Kilakarai, Ramanathapuram and Chennai. We believe that "God will not change the condition of a people until they try to change themselves". We focus on doing right things without any bias and with charitable mind would strive to build an institution of academic excellence and help in building the nation. Our Founder Our Trustees Chairman Message Dear Parents and Prospective Students, Welcome to Mohamed Sathak A.J. College of Engineering, Chennai. Choosing a right institute to pursue your higher studies is one of the most important decisions that you will ever make. It can be the key for the door of your lifelong opportunity for sustainable growth and service. We want you to base your choice at the right place with relevant and reliable education. The success depends on the effort you invest in your own intellectual and professional development. Invest wisely and be assured that MSAJCE faculty and staff pledge their best efforts in helping you to achieve your educational goals. Our standards are challenging and we are dedicating ourselves in helping you to meet the standards. We will judge our institution's success by how best your succeed in realizing your potential as a student and later in professional career. I invite you to visit our magnificent campus, to witness our state-of-the facilities, including the Technology Centres, interact with students and faculty and to convince yourselves on why so many bright students have made MSAJCE as their choice of the institution. I am confident that you wil take pride in joining our college. Overview Vision & Mission Management Principal Message Statutory body Governing Council Planning & Monitoring Board Academic Advisory Committe Grievance and Redressal Committee Anti-Ragging Committee & Squad Womens Empowerment Cell Functional Committees MSAJCE Policies Mandatory Disclosure Group of Institutions Download Brochure Brochure.pdf Mohamed Sathak AJ College of Engineering